                             THE HUNT PACK




This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online at
https://www.gutenberg.org/license. If you are not located in the United
States, you’ll have to check the laws of the country where you are
located before using this ebook.



Title: The Hunt Pack
Author: Samuel Alexander White
Release Date: May 07, 2020 [EBook #65272]
Language: English
Character set encoding: UTF-8


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HUNT PACK ***




Produced by Roger Frank from the August, 1916 edition of Adventure
Magazine, generously provided by the Pulp Magazine Project.





                            *THE HUNT PACK*


                                   BY

                         Samuel Alexander White

           Author of “The Ocean Born,” “The Spoilsman,” etc.




In hilarious Happy Camp, on the north side of Chilkoot Pass, inbound
stampeders traveling laden and outbound packers traveling light, rested
by night from the toil of the trail. Foregathered in the Saxon Saloon
they relaxed their muscles, their throats and their poke-strings.

Motley crowds haunted the bar on one side of the huge canvas room,
surrounded the gaming-tables on the other side, clogged the central
space where, within a circle of chairs, a red-hot stove throbbed like a
giant engine and overflowed upon the dancing-floor at the rear.

A haze of smoke invested everything, blurring the oil-lamps swung from
the ridgepole, and softening the uncouth garments and rough faces of the
men.

In all quarters, except in the immediate vicinity of the tables, where a
businesslike quiet reigned, was laughter, song and badinage; was clamor,
jest and camaraderie; was open hand, open heart and a
devil-take-tomorrow’s-worry atmosphere. Old-timers, hailing from
opposite ends of the earth, called one another friend and swapped harsh
experiences, vile tobacco and colossal lies; while chechakos, to whom
these seared adventurers were little less than gods, worshiped meekly at
their feet, imbibing among other things instruction in the ways and
wiles of the land.

And with the noise of the main room of the Saxon at its height, into it
swept like a flood the babel of the dance-hall. Blended music of violin
and piano stopped. Two-score couples circling the floor whirled about
and made a concentrated rush for refreshments. In a shrieking, giggling,
shoving mass they surged forth, the women in satins and pumps, the men
in moccasins and mukluks and fur or mackinaw coats, shaking the
oil-lamps on the ridge-pole with their raucous laughter, swirling the
haze of the place into strange eddies with the violence of their charge.

For this was a night of rejoicing. This was Happy Camp! The Titanic
climb of storm-harried Chilkoot was past, and the trend of the
gold-trail now led down the mountain and onward by ice-bound lake and
river to desired Dawson. That many who had started up the Pass from Dyea
had never crossed the Summit, had drowned in Dyea River, broken their
necks in the Cañon, got caught near the Scales by shoving glacier or
thundering avalanche, or fallen to frost and blizzard upon the
Palisades, was not a thing to be remembered at this hour. The rest were
here, the survivors, the fit, the strong, in whom life flowed fiercely
with its primordial pulse, and they were reveling in triumph and
shouting toasts to the trough roof, when the door of the Saxon opened
and the frost puffed in a fog-bank into the superheated room.

                                  ――――

Out of the fog-bank stepped two figures, a man and a woman, fresh from
the trail. Their parkas where they clung tightly over their backs and
sagged on their hips were rimmed with hoarfrost, advertising body-sweat
congealed, and about the close-drawn puckers of their hoods icicles hung
like tusks.

Upon the two were the unmistakable signs of the Chilkoot climb. New
recruits to the ranks of the strong they seemed, and the triumphant army
in the Saxon acclaimed them with a thunderous cheer.

The man and the woman held their heads over the heat. The icy tusks
thawed and fell to sizzle and steam upon the glowing stove-top. The two
shoved back the parka hoods and nodded genially to their welcomers.

But the moment the newcomers’ faces were bared, a thick-set man in
moccasins, German socks and bearskin coat stagged off at the hips, rose
up on the other side of the stove and peered sharply through the steam.
Next, an unspoken question in his eyes, he gazed significantly at his
six companions around the fire. They likewise scrutinized the late
arrivals for a keen second, looked back at the thick-set man in the
stagged-off bearskin and nodded grimly.

Whereupon the bearskin-clad one raised an authoritative hand amid the
bedlam of the Saxon.

At once the din lessened.

“What’s up, Bassett?” yelled an irrepressible member of the dance crowd.
“Relatives of yours?”

“Maybe they come through the Chilkoot by tunnel and ain’t had the third
degree of the Pass!” hazarded another facetiously. “Tom’s going to find
out.”

But Tom Bassett had stepped swiftly round the stove and laid a hand upon
the shoulder of the man in the parka.

“What might your name be, stranger?”

“Karle Lott.”

“Lie number one! It’s Jose Cantine. And who’s the woman with you?”

“My wife!” He resentfully shook off Bassett’s hand.

“Lie number two, you hound! It’s Eric Sark’s wife—vamoosed with in White
Pass City months and months back! Aw, hold up!” Bassett seized the hand
that dived under the parka and jerked it forth again. “You don’t go
gunnin’ with me. If you was fair game I’d sure let you, but you ain’t.
My pardner Sark’s got a mortgage on you. And if I was over in his place
establishin’ relay camps on another trail and he was here in mine you’d
pay right now. I’m sufferin’ sorry he ain’t here, but all the same it’s
a bloody short morator-ee-um you’re gittin’, Cantine. Savvy? That’s why
I’m lettin’ you stay hull-skinned.”

“Well, if you’re lettin’ me stay whole-skinned what you crossin’ me for
then?” fiercely demanded the man in the parka, anger darkening his
already dark eyes, tensing sharper his already sharp features. “Mind, I
ain’t admittin’ I’m Cantine either. But if I was Cantine, and you ain’t
goin’ to perforate Cantine on sight, what in Hades do you mean?”

“Mean?” echoed Bassett. “Your gall is sure chilled steel and
case-hardened on top. Do you think as me or any other white man’s goin’
to eat, drink or sleep with or breathe the same air as you? You as broke
the bond of bread and blanket, the Northland law as no man ever breaks,
and lives to boast of it! Days on end I seen you sit at table with my
pardner Sark under his own roof in White Pass City. Nights on end I seen
you smoke by his fireside and bed down in his blankets. And with the
guile of your stinkin’ soul you was plannin’ and executin’ his betrayal
every blasted minute of the time!

“Then ag’in, do you think as any woman in this camp’s goin’ to suffer
the companionship of yon female you call your wife who’s ten times
guiltier’n you? The girls of Happy Camp is slightly frivolous and not
what you’d term pernickety, but they draw the line at her. And I tell
you, Cantine, I draw the line at you. I wouldn’t deserve to be called
Sark’s pardner if I didn’t. I wouldn’t deserve to be called a white man
if I didn’t. I’m strong for sanitation here. The likes of you two is
stench and putrefaction in a healthy place. Savvy what I mean? You git
to blazes outa Happy’ Camp!”

Bassett released the other’s wrist as he spoke, and the man, his lips
drawn up in a wolf-dog’s snarl, stepped back a yard.

“I’ll be bludgeoned if we do!” he snapped. “You ain’t proved anything
yet. Anyway there ain’t anything to prove.”

Tom Bassett gazed at him with a wearied air and resignedly waved a hand
to his companions.

“Who is he, men?” he asked.

As one man, six of them took pipes out of their mouths, lowered their
feet from the guard-rail of the stove, and spat toward the damper.

“Jose Cantine!” they chorused. Immediately their feet went up to the
guard-rail again, and their pipes went back to their mouths.

“And about the woman!” Bassett paused and scanned the throng of dancers.
“Where’s White-Pass-City Winnie?” he asked. “Ain’t she here tonight? I
thought I seen her yeller dress somewhar. Oh, she’s at the back, eh?
Well, trot her forrard.”

The throng shifted, leaving an irregular lane in its center.

Through this lane a fresh-faced girl of twenty-four or -five pushed from
the rear, the rustle of her canary-satin dress and the tap-tap of her
dainty pumps falling with strange distinctness across the silence of the
Saxon.

“Winnie, shake hands with an old friend of yours!” yawned Bassett.

White-Pass-City Winnie gave one swift, curious glance at the woman by
the stove and recoiled, her nose in the air.

“Me? Shake with Blera Sark? Not much! And if I’d shamed as good a man as
Eric Sark for a cur like Jose Cantine I’d spare my old friends the sight
of my face!”

Winnie, arms folded so tight as to lock her hands away from any possible
contamination, flounced back into the front rank of the dance-crowd and
remained there standing on her dignity and her high heels.

For a little the other woman gazed fixedly at her scorner. Then her
flushed face, still handsome in spite of the marring frontier life,
began to quiver and work. Her hands clenched upon the breast of her
parka, and tears splashed down and hissed upon the stove.

“You—you—vixen!” she choked.

For revelation as well as inexpressible hurt was White-Pass-City
Winnie’s opinion of her social status.

Yet her shame and her tears had no weakening effect upon those about
her. Bassett was gazing significantly at Cantine.

“No good, Jose!” he shrugged. “Seein’ as I’m an all-fired, welded and
cemented pardner of Sark’s, I figgered you wouldn’t be anyways partial
to my views; I figgered you’d be hard-bent on disputin’ my
identification if ever I spotted you. So I ain’t standin’ on my own
identification. I’m standin’ on the identification of these here six men
as knowed you along the White Pass Trail. I’m standin’ on the
identification of White-Pass-City Winnie, who was a close friend of
Blera Sark’s. What’s more, I’ll bet a thousand ounces thar ain’t a
person present as doubts yon evidence. If thar is let him speak up for
you!”

Bassett’s challenging glance traveled swiftly round the Saxon. The
dancing-floor was empty, the bar deserted, every faro, stud-poker,
draw-poker, crap and roulette table idle. To a man the stakers had left
their stiffest games to hear the controversy in the middle of the room.
And to a man they stood with Tom Bassett. No one spoke for Cantine.

“It’s settled!” decided Bassett, whirling upon Jose. “And lemme tell you
you’re gittin’ outa Happy Camp pretty safe. I know many’s the camp as
would give you twenty lashes for stealin’ a rind of bacon. And for
stealin’ a man’s wife and home and hopes and honor—say, Cantine, liquid
hell-fire ain’t a squirt on what they’d do to you. You’re lucky to be
goin’ so safe. Now git!”

“We won’t!” defied Jose recklessly. “We’ve come twenty-odd miles,
climbed nigh four thousand feet, and it’s forty-one below zero by the
thermometer on the door. You can’t turn us out on a night like this.”

“Kin’t?” growled Bassett. With a quick jerk he flipped his watch from
his pocket on to his open palm. “Sixty seconds I’m givin’ you,” he
announced. “Walk through that door before then or git thrown through
arter!”

The Saxon was very still. Bristling like a malamute at bay, Jose Cantine
half-crouched in front of Bassett, who intently held the watch on him.

“One, two, three, four, five—ten—fifteen—” rasped Bassett’s deep voice
monotonously counting off the seconds.

Cantine’s coal-black eyes shifted appealingly round the room, but the
crowd of men gazed back at him stolidly.

“Twenty—thirty—forty—fifty—sixty!”

Bassett flipped his watch into his pocket and jumped.

As he jumped, Cantine’s hand again dived under his parka. He had the
Colt out this time before Tom grasped his arm. Two shots went wild
through the stovepipe, but, his wrist twisted with a violent wrench,
Cantine felt the weapon slipping from his fingers, felt himself lifted
like a doll in Bassett’s powerful hands and bundled to the door.

In the doorway Bassett poised a second. Suddenly he kicked. Cantine
hurtled down the slope like a football, gaining momentum every second,
and plunged into a snowdrift one hundred yards below.

“Now, missus—”

But the woman who had been Blera Sark fled past Bassett after Jose.

“Mebbe you think you’ve run ag’in a pretty hard snag in me!” Bassett
called down the slope to them. “You haven’t. I’m a gentle, ministerin’,
velvet-fingered angel of mercy to what you’ll strike before you make
Dawson City!”

He closed the Saxon door against the boring frost.

“The air sure smells better,” he observed, sniffing with relief.

“Sure does,” nodded the old-timers by the stove. “But what trail’s your
pardner plantin’ relay camps on?”

“The Nordenskold Trail,” answered Bassett. “That’s the same trail yon
two skunks is takin’ on from Whitehorse, only they dunno it yit. But,
ladies and gentlemen,” apologizing to the crowd, “I’m sure sufferin’
sorry to be the cause of the delay in your fun. Don’t let her delay any
longer. Go cavortin’ to it!”

Immediately clamor broke out again. Violin and piano struck up.

The click of the ivory roulette-ball and the rattle of dealt cases arose
from the tables.

Happy Camp was Happy Camp once more, and for it the incident was closed.

                                  ――――

But not for Cantine and the woman.

She helped the cursing Jose to pull himself out of the drift, and
together they floundered back to the beaten trail.

In the snow-walled defile they stood a moment, gazing upward at the
glowing lights of Happy Camp and the stark outline of Chilcoot Mountain
etched against a green night sky.

With a string of muffled imprecations Jose made a move as if to go back
up the slope, but Blera put her hands on his shoulders and checked him.

“Don’t, Jose, don’t!” she besought. “They’ll maim and manhandle you till
you’re a proper cripple. And the word’ll go round like a plague. There
isn’t any tent there for us tonight.”

“I ain’t seein’ any here either, then,” snarled Jose. “You know how
light we come over the Pass to make it in a day. Grub enough for one
stop, and no blankets!”

“Well,” shivered Blera petulantly, “there’s lots of fire, isn’t there?
What’s the use of lamenting in the frost?”

Happy Camp marked the edge of timber-line after the nakedness of the
glacier-scoured rocks and volcanic slag about Crater Lake and the steeps
above, and into the first scrubby pines Cantine and the woman turned.

Here was a chaos of dead and splintered trunks as thick as a man’s arm,
and piling these up they kindled a giant fire. Food was lacking. Yet
they melted snow in a drinking-cup that Cantine carried in his pocket
and swallowed great drafts of hot water.

Blankets they were likewise powerless to improvise. They simply threw
big heaps of green spruce boughs beside the fire and, lying upon them
close to the coals, basked and drowsed, warming back and breast
alternately in the terrific cold, and alternately rising to drag on
fresh fuel.

Above them in the January night the aurora flashed and dimmed, and the
sapphire stars leaped with dire prophecy of still intenser cold. And the
January day, when it came, was as the night, except that the stars
vanished and the aurora ceased to play. The jagged, sunless world was
frigid, stiff and white, and the green night sky had changed to muddy
gray.

Cantine and Blera arose early, drank more hot water and plowed down the
ice-trail across Deep Lake and Long Lake, ancient volcano pits that with
Crater linked Lake Linderman to the mountains.

All about them the stampede was on the move, hurrying along the deep
trench of trampled snow which constituted the trail. The throng hauled
loaded hand-sleds, drove dogs attached to loaded dog-sleds or went by
man-power under enormous packs. Ever these packs were cast down without
care at the side of the trail while the owners back-tripped for more
till the side snows were heaped with bags, boxes and rope-lashed bundles
of all descriptions.

On the right of Cantine and Blera, on their left, ahead of them, behind
them were tons upon tons of provisions, yet they dared not put forth
their hands to lift a morsel. Well they knew the Northland law
concerning wayside caches, and well they knew the punishment that fell
upon him who broke the law. The bitter resentment they nursed against
Bassett who had ejected them from Happy Camp and against all the rest
who had consented to that ejection blazed into a sort of savagery, a
hatred of their own breed which mocked and tantalized and ostracized
them.

Every man of that breed bound inward had a vision before his eyes and a
hope in his heart. Each worked in a frenzy and performed prodigies of
toil for the attainment of his vision and the realizing of his high
ambition, but the jaded souls of Cantine and Blera did not respond to
any such spur.

From the start they had been under no spell but the spell of shallow,
garish enticements; and the unlooked-for collision with Tom Bassett and
the specter of another day had seared them into callousness. Without
lifting eyes to their companions of the trail who passed, met, repassed
and oftentimes jostled them, they plodded, pariahs of their race, down
the frozen surface of Long Lake.

Near Long Lake’s foot a string of seven sleds drawn by swift dog-teams,
and going light, overtook them. They drove down upon the two without the
customary warning hail.

Cantine and the woman had barely time to throw themselves prone into the
side snow before the lead-dog of the first team, ripping at them with
vicious fangs, flashed past. The other teams flashed alter, each dog
taking the chance to snap futilely at their moccasined heels and the
drivers with raucous laughter flicking their whiplashes like long, black
snakes into the drifts around the heads of the fallen pair.

Although no blow had been landed on them, the demonstration rankled in
the hearts of Jose and Blera. Blera knew that had it not been for the
fact that she was a woman the blows would surely have been sent home and
perhaps the wolf-dogs swerved from their course to rend them as they
ran. More bitter still her anger flared, and Jose himself quivered with
passion as he clambered out of the side snow back into the trail and
reviled the disappearing seven. He could not fully identify the befurred
and parka-clad drivers, but he had a suspicion that they were Tom
Bassett and the six men who had sat around the stove the night before in
the Saxon Saloon.

On down to Lake Linderman, the end of the twenty-eight-mile portage over
Chilcoot from Dyea Beach, he carried his suspicion, and there at
Linderman Landing he found his suspicions justified.

The shore of the lake was dotted with log-cabins, half-log and
half-canvas cabins and flimsy tents, standing where the whipsaws had
swept the trees away. On the edge of the main trail just at the dip to
the ice bulked the Linderman Restaurant run by Flambald. It flaunted a
huge cotton sign painted with pies and prices and advertised a satiating
meal for ten dollars in gold. Instinctively Cantine and Blera increased
their pace as they made for it.

There was a crowd about the door. Cantine went to push through and
suddenly recoiled. Tom Bassett lounged on one end of the log door-step
with his back against the log wall.

“What’s the matter, Cantine?” grinned Tom derisively. “Ain’t you
hungry?” Cantine put out a hand for his companion and gingerly, his eyes
watching Bassett for an untoward action, moved over the door-step. He
seemed astounded that he got across untouched. He looked back over his
shoulder uncertainly, half paused and went on again toward the tables.
Bassett had never moved a muscle. Only Cantine could see the derisive
profile of his nose, cheek and mouth as he leaned against the outside
wall, and the sight awoke in Jose queer premonitions.

Nevertheless he boldly handed Blera into a chair and waited for some one
to take his order. No one came. Jose beckoned madly, but the waiters
were always busy. They nodded, but they never came. In the fury of his
hunger Jose leaped up and rushed over to the plank desk where Flambald
took the money for the waiters’ checks.

“Look here!” he flared. “We’re famished, and your waiters are a lot of
dummies. Send some one round with grub.”

Flambald, a man of colossal and unhealthy girth, looked at him over the
plank desk.

“You go to condemnation!” he bellowed. “You aren’t eating here.”

“Why? What in—”

“Stop!” roared Flambald, “This is my house. I feed who I like, but you I
don’t like. Savvy?”

Jose savvied.

Flambald’s hand was on a huge iron paper-weight that held his bills upon
the plank desk, and there was no arguing. Jose silently beckoned Blera
and slunk out again.

On the door-step lounged Bassett, and Jose turned in the trail to curse
him futilely. He knew better than to try any other restaurant. Bassett
had passed the word. His receptions would be all the same. Also he knew
better than to try force. He had had his lesson from that up by
timberline. Besides, Blera’s hand was on his arm, fear fully dragging
him on down Linderman’s frozen bosom.

Thus began a grim game in which Bassett was persecution personified, a
Nemesis unshakable. He passed them on Lake Linderman, welcomed them at
Bennett Post, and once more showed them the tail of his sled halfway
down to West Arm on Bennett Lake.

That night they spent much like the preceding one, feeding a gigantic
fire, drinking inconceivable quantities of hot water and gnawing mangy
dried salmon purchased at a Stick Indian tee-pee on Lake Bennett’s
shore.

Thenceforward Bassett’s hand as well as the hand of every other man was
against them up the chain of lakes. The white breed of the land was a
hunt-pack turned upon them, and though by virtue of stray Indian camps
they survived through Caribou Crossing, Tagish Post and McClintock Post
to Whitehorse, Bassett beat them in the end.

For on the Fifty-mile River beyond the Whitehorse camp his dog-sled
passed them once again, and the next far post was Selkirk at the Pelly’s
mouth.

“Jose, how many miles to Selkirk?” asked Blera as they stared after the
vanishing outfit.

“More’n two hundred and fifty,” answered Jose dejectedly. “Bassett’s got
us, sure.”

“No, he hasn’t, then!” Blera’s blue eyes flashed in the frost, and she
shook her fur-gantleted hand in Bassett’s wake. “He’s aiming to starve
us out on the river-stretch and make us quit it again, but it’ll take a
sore sight more than him to do it!”

“How you meaning? We can’t make Selkirk on hot water and dog-feed.”

“I know that, but there’s the Dalton Trail.”

“By thunder! Say, I hadn’t figured on that track! But it’ll do. Blera,
you’re sure a—a—a winner. I know there’s a Stick village at the mouth of
the Klokhok—old Tutchi’s Village. I’ve been in it often. The beggars is
rich. They’re lousy with dogs, and we’ll dicker for some and go down the
Middle Fork of the Nordenskold. After that, Dawson’s dead easy with
dogs. And in Dawson we’ll lie low till we get a chance to square up with
Mister Bassett. Come on!”

Endowed with redoubled energy at his bettered prospects, Jose turned and
sped off in a long lurching snowshoe stride for the mouth of the Takhini
River which emptied into the Fifty-mile halfway between Whitehorse and
Lake Laberge.

They turned up the Takhini, sometimes called the Mendenhall since both
these rivers joined to form the larger stream which emptied into the
Fifty-mile, the Mendenhall draining Taye Lake lying to the westward on
the Dalton Trail and the Takhini flowing north by east from Kusawa Lake
between the Yukon River and the Dezadeash country.

Cantine and Blera were traveling almost due westward. On their left to
the south lay Haeckel Hill. On their right to the north loomed the
Miner’s Range, and on the far horizon beyond the valley of the tributary
Klokhok jutted higher, nameless peaks. In interminable vastness the land
spread before them, virgin ground oft from the main-traveled trail to
Dawson City, and the stupendous extent of it was enough to strike fear
into the human heart.

But Cantine had no fear. In the lonely expanse he knew the spot where
was life and warm teepees and food. Tutchi was a chief, and he kept his
village in a fairly sanitary condition, a condition immeasurably
superior to that of the squalid teepees to be found along the Yukon
basin. Cantine had been there and he knew, and up the Takhini’s smooth
ice he pressed at a furious pace, the beast instinct of him yearning for
food and the human side of him yearning for a place where he might
without dread of contumely take on again the status of the white.

Jose’s sentiments were in a degree reflected in his companion. She ran
at his heels with the swing of the Northwoman trained to the trails, and
she seemed to have no difficulty in keeping his pace.

                                  ――――

The Klokhok River they sought flowed south along the base of the Miner’s
Range into the Takhini. All afternoon they held on for it and at night
swung suddenly to the right into its spruce-fringed mouth. Yonder by the
fringe of spruce on the low bench-land was the site of Tutchi’s Village,
but to Cantine’s astonished eyes there glowed no teepee fires between
the black trunks.

“Blazes!” he exclaimed in alarm as he surveyed the bare bench-land.
“She’s gone, Blera. And how in tarnation’s that? It wasn’t just a
camping-ground. It was a permanent village. But maybe they’ve shifted
up-stream or back in the range. Let’s see if there’s a trail.”

With a swift pang of fear and loneliness caused by she knew not what,
Blera mechanically followed Cantine as he skimmed up the snow-sheeted
ice alongside the Klokhok’s left limit. In that moment of non-discovery
of the village the inimical wild crept close to her. She saw it as a
concrete force, strong, sure, ruthless as the persecuting Bassett or the
avenging hand of Eric Sark.

Her fear grew upon her so that she drew near to Jose in his search, her
hand on his elbow, and skimmed with him stride by stride. Her eyes were
furtively turned to the dark spruce forests crowding on either side,
while the eyes of her companion scrutinized the snowy bank. That was why
neither of them marked the scum ice, fragile mask of an unfrozen spring,
straight ahead.

They did not mark it, but the moment it rattled and shaled off against
the frames of their shoes their trained ears telegraphed the danger.
Instinctively both made a violent half-turn in mid-stride, but the
movement was not enough to carry them clear. It served only to jerk them
against each other, and together they sank to their shoulders through
the scum ice.

The Klokhok’s waters were as cold as the vault of death.

For an instant the contact paralyzed the two. Then their arms fell like
flails upon the rotten shell about them. For yards they broke their way
to shore and pulled themselves like leaden-footed divers up the bank.

A clump of blasted spruce stood on the shore, and, struggling against
the clog of their garments which were setting as hard as armor, they
madly tore down armfuls of the boughs.

“Jose, the matches!” gasped Blera, dropping on her knees beside the
pile. “Give them to me. I’ll light it. You pile on more. Don’t stop
piling!”

Jose snatched up the stiff, crackling front of his parka and dabbed his
numbing fingers into the pocket of his vest where he kept his matches in
a little bottle tightly corked, the best waterproof match-safe the
Northman knows.

Even as he jabbed his fingers in he uttered a cry of pain and jerked
them out again.

The ends showed all bloody and studded with bits of broken glass.

Tailor swept Cantine’s swarthy face till he looked like a statue in
bronze as he stood staring stupidly at his finger-ends and watching the
hot blood freeze.

“Jose! Jose!”

Blera’s voice rang thin as a wail in the frosty stillness.

She sprang to Jose, seized on the cloth of his vest and pushed the
pocket inside out from the bottom so that the contents fell into the
palm of her left gantlet.

Mingled with the broken glass of the bottle was a muddled mass of
splintered match-stumps and sodden heads.

“Must have done it in the fall!” quavered Jose, still staring stupidly.
“I felt your snow-shoe take me hard in the ribs when we went down.”

But Blera did not heed.

She was kneeling again by the pile of spruce branches, scratching
match-head after match-head.

None of them would light despite her frantic and repeated trials. In
despair she threw the sodden mass into the unlit pile of twigs and
turned again to Cantine.

“Your Colt, Jose!” she appealed, rising stiffly. “Your Colt! You can
start it with a shot!”

“My Colt?” Cantine looked bewildered. The frost seemed to be deadening
his senses already. “My Colt, Blera? Oh, yes. Bassett took it, ’way back
at Happy Camp!”

“Good God!” screamed Blera, remembering.

She threw out her arms, weakly trying to fight up circulation, and a
second time the ruthless spirit of the wild came very close.

To her terrified eyes it seemed to leap out of the darkness of the
spruce, a material presence, and mock her with a shout that reverberated
across the fireless land.

It rushed upon her. She could hear the crunch-crunch of its footsteps in
the crust. Its grip fell upon her shoulder, and she shrieked insanely.

“Steady, missus, steady!” soothed a mumbling, half-articulate voice.

And not till the spoken words smote on her consciousness could she
realize that the material presence was a humble man. Then she gave a
little moan of relief and put out a hand for Jose to share in her
discovery.

In the arctic gloom they could not see the man’s face at all, but they
gathered that he had been disturbed at supper by their cries, for he was
capless and coatless. Also he held in his hand a generous slab of
pilot-bread, and this it was which, cramming his mouth, rendered his
speech so inarticulate. Wildly leading the race, the bread in his left
hand and Blera’s frozen gantlet in his right, he hurtled them over the
snows between the spruce trees and banged them into his cabin doorway.

At their advent five wolf-dogs leaped up snarling from their rest beside
the stove.

“Lie down!” gurgled Cantine’s and Blera’s rescuer.

He kicked the dogs soundly in the ribs till they retreated into the huge
empty wood-box that stood behind the stove.

“I don’t like the brutes inside,” he mumbled, still wrestling
convulsively to get rid of the gagging pilot-bread, “but it’s a case of
have to keep them inside or get them eaten whole. Tutchi’s Village is
full of savage semi-wolves, and they run the river in a hunt-pack every
night.”

“Tutchi’s Village!” exclaimed Cantine, his teeth clicking incessantly as
he whacked the ice from bis garments. “Where’s it moved to? It was
hunting sign of it we fell in.”

“Moved five miles up the Klokliok,” spluttered the other, setting the
stove-door ajar to obtain a floor-streamer of light in the gloomy cabin.
“But you better strip quick. Use that back room there to change. You’ll
find a dunnage-bag full of clothes—some of them woman’s things—under the
bunk. While you throw them on, I’ll rustle more wood to stoke up the
stove. I used all I had in to cook supper. And you can light the candle
on the shelf there to see by. I was just getting up to reach for it when
I heard your yells!”

Gulping down the last of his pilot-bread, the owner of the cabin was
gone while he spoke.

Cantine reached up to the shelf, took off the tallow candle stuck in a
wide-necked pickle-bottle, reached a box of matches from the same shelf
and lighted the wick.

From force of habit he fingered up a small bunch of matches out of the
box and went to shove them into his vest pocket.

“Wait, Jose, wait!” cautioned Blera. “They’ll be as bad as the others if
you put them there. Put them in the dry clothes, and after this don’t
trust a bottle any more. Get one of those rubber match-safes with the
screw top. And now for the dry clothes! I feel as if I can work my arms
and legs once more.”

Taking the candle from Jose, she moved across the cabin toward the door
of the back room. The yellow light flooding the main room showed it to
be built of the customary spruce logs chinked with moss and plastered
with mud.

The floor was of rough-hewn slabs. Of slabs, too, but a little better
smoothed, was the rude table upon which supper was spread. The table
stood under the window which instead of glass for a light boasted a
square of golden-brown moose-skin rubbed so smooth as to be almost
transparent.

Upon the opposite wall was a bunk also formed of slabs. The Yukon stove
stood at the end, and it, with the wood-box behind, completed the
furnishings of the cabin.

Out of the empty wood-box the huskies raised their heads and growled so
ominously at Blera’s and Jose’s movements that the two ran the last few
steps across the floor and shut the door of the back room with a bang.

The back room was but a logged-in annex to the main room and without
window or door. A bunk constituted its only furnishing, and it appeared
to be used as a store-room, for grub-bags and odds and ends were piled
neatly in its corners.

Blera set the candle on a pile of sacks and ferreted out the dunnage-bag
from under the bunk. Its lashings were loose, and she tumbled the
contents out on the floor where each could pick what was needed.

The rapid run from the river to the cabin and the genial atmosphere of
the cabin itself had somewhat warmed their blood as well as partly
thawed their mail-like garments. Hastily they ripped off the clammy
parkas, mackinaws and woolens and began the process of replacing them
with dry ones.

For the most part Blera dressed like Jose in arctic underwear, flannel
shirt, German socks and moccasins, but when it came to outer garments
she searched in the heart of the disorderly pile on the floor for the
woman’s things the owner of the cabin had mentioned.

Finally she fished them out, a buckskin waist and a mackinaw skirt with
a pronounced plaid pattern.

The waist went on like any waist, but at sight of the skirt Blera’s
breath whistled in her throat. Her face convulsed in an appalling
discovery. She held the plaid mackinaw close to the candle, examining
the band and the vent at the back.

“What’s wrong with it?” asked Cantine, looking up from his own dressing.
“Lousy?”

“Jose, it’s the same! Here’s the band leather sewn on to keep the
sheath-knife from wearing it and the hooks and eyes of copper wire on
the vent. Jose, it’s my skirt!

And he’s—”

“Sark!” roared Jose.

Terror transformed Cantine’s features. He wildly scanned the walls of
the back room for window or door, but, as he remembered now, there was
no window or door.

“Blera, we’re trapped!” he faltered with a great revelation. “We’re
trapped, and Bassett’s done it. This is the trail his partner was
putting relay camps on, the Nordenskold Trail. The road down the Middle
Fork runs right here. Why in Hades didn’t we watch where we were going?”

Blera, unanswering, held the mackinaw skirt spread out in her hands. She
was trembling from head to foot, and her eyes stared wide under the
surge of emotion, jumbled emotion, fear, remorse, anxiety, longing,
despair.

“Bassett’s done it!” repeated Jose. “Curse his bloody heart, he knew
where his partner was. He knew if he closed the Yukon against us we’d
have to travel the Nordenskold. I wish, to blue brimstoned blazes, I’d
been quicker with my Colt that night up at—but what in thunder’s the use
of raving?” He stopped short in his furious passion. “We got to do
something. We got to do it mighty sudden. Blera, what in tarnation can
we do without dogs, arms or grub?”

“I don’t know what we can do,” answered Blera, breathing as if she were
sobbing, “but we got to get out of here. Put on dry parkas and draw the
hoods close and beat it. Maybe we can get out before he comes in. If we
don’t, tell him—tell—him we got to keep right on. Tell him your
brother’s sick up in the Miner’s Range. Here’s a bullet knocking around
in the dunnage-bag. Put it in your mouth, and it’ll help change your
voice some. And for God’s sake let’s keep our parka hoods drawn tight.”

                                  ――――

Blera dropped the plaid mackinaw skirt and, contorting feverishly, they
both donned parkas and pulled open the door.

But as they stepped out into the main room of the cabin the door of it
rattled, was kicked back, and both his arms full, Sark staggered in with
the wood.

Instantly, as before, the five huskies leaped viciously across the floor
at Jose and Blera.

Sark let fall his load, caught up a single billet and belabored the
beasts over the heads.

“Down, Skookum! Down, Culuk!” he yelled. “Get to blazes behind the
stove!” He overcame their stubborn resistance and hammered them into
submission. “Now stay behind it, you savages!”

He turned apologetically to his guests.

“But hold on!” he exclaimed, noting the drawn parka hoods which allowed
only their eyes to be seen. “You’re not for hitting the trail again
tonight, eh?”

“We got to,” twanged Jose, the bullet in his mouth altering his voice
and causing him to enunciate through his nose. “We got to get along on
the jump. My brother’s sick up in the Miner’s Range, up on the
headwaters of the Klokhok. We. got to keep going tonight, for I sent him
word I’d reach him tomorrow.”

“Thunder!” exclaimed Sark. “That’s different. And I’m sorry. But you eat
before you travel. You and your missus need solid grub and steaming
drink after yon bath. I was just taking the last bite myself. There’s
lots of pilot-bread and moose meat and hot coffee on the stove. Dig in!”

Sark waved a hand toward the laden table.

Blera who, although the parka hood concealed every part of her face but
her eyes, could not forbear averting her head, turned slightly and took
a sidelong glance at Eric Sark. As she viewed the familiar figure so
clear in the candlelight, big of limb and of chest, blue-eyed,
granite-featured, with the raven-black in his beard and hair, she had an
almost unconquerable desire to cry out or to run.

Yet she did neither.

She remained stone-still till her eyes encountered those of Cantine and
strayed with them to the food upon the table.

After their days of hunger it was a great temptation, and they fell.
Flight delayed, and still trusting to the masks of their parka hoods,
they stretched out ravenous hands and munched fiercely upon the bread
and meat and gulped the steaming coffee.

Jose removed the bullet from his mouth while he ate, but both he and
Blera were careful to sit backing the tallow-candle which Sark placed
upon its shelf again, so that their faces were cast in gloom.

Sark, to maintain the part of host, picked up the remainder of the slab
of pilot-bread he had carried when he rescued them and poured himself
another cup of coffee.

“What might your name be, stranger?” he asked.

Blera started, the piece of moose-shoulder she was munching slipping to
the floor.

“Karle Lott!” coughed Jose through the drink he snatched.

“Mine’s Eric Sark.”

Dreading another personal question, Blera bent low by the table-edge to
pick up the meat.

But Skookum, the most cunning as well as the most evil of the wolf-dogs,
had seen it fall and stolen from behind the stove. He leaped as Blera
reached for it and, losing it by the fraction of a second, slashed with
his chisel-sharp fangs at her face.

The fangs fell short of the flesh, but met in the parka hood and tore it
from her head.

Unmasked, the woman sprang away from the brute with a violent scream.

“Blera!” Sark’s vicious voice thundered in the cabin.

Swift as his wolf-dog he sprang up.

For a moment he stared at her as across a gulf, his blue eyes blazing.
Then the lightning-fire of his glance struck her companion.

“You can drop your hood, too, Cantine!”

With the ultimatum Sark’s lingers slid back and seized the rifle lying
in his bunk on the wall, for he looked to see a weapon flash in
Cantine’s hand and guessed that one of them had traveled his last trail.

But Blera was upon him on the instant, pressing down the gun.

“You can’t harm us, Eric! You can’t harm us!” she declared hysterically.
“You can’t touch us here, people you’ve broken bread with under your own
roof. You know that’s the Northland law!”

Again Sark stared at her as across a gulf and dropped the rifle on the
bunk.

“You’re right,” he admitted slowly, nodding his head as if she had
expounded some all-powerful decree. “Though laws aren’t worth a Siwash
curse to you two, they are to me. You’re safe—for the night. Because now
I savvy that ‘brother in the Miner’s Range’ was only lyin’ bluff.”

“But look here, Sark,” whined Jose, “we—”

“Stop right up! I’d sure palaver with a murdering Sundowner. I’d sure
palaver with a cannibal Hoonah. But I won’t palaver with you. I’m
telling you you’re safe under this roof. Out from under it you take your
chance. I’ll give you an hour’s clear start in the morning, and then, by
thunder, look out for me! Now jump into that back room quick, the both
of you. Jump in, I say, for fear I forget I’ve broken bread under my own
roof with you!”

The intensity of Sark’s passion heaved and tore at his mighty chest and
vibrated in his smashing voice.

They did not want him to forget. They had the temporary saving grace of
the night hours. Much might perhaps be accomplished in those hours, and
with that idea in their degenerate minds Cantine and the woman slunk
into the logged-in annex and shut the door.

As if he were already slamming lead into Cantine’s body, Sark slammed
stick after stick into the stove.

Then, although it was still early in the evening, he blew out the candle
and threw himself upon his bunk, lying on hip and elbow, resting his
head on his hand and staring like a graven image at the flame-dance on
the darkened walls of the cabin.

Blera, peering through a chink in the back-room door, watched him thus
hour by hour. It was a strange and weary vigil, but on after midnight
his head slipped down from his hand.

“Jose,” she breathed, “he’s asleep. Now’s our chance. But we have to
have the rifle to make our get-away good. Then you can stand him off.
I’ll take the gun. I’m lighter than you, and the slab floor’s awful
creaky.”

Cautiously she slipped out of the back room and as cautiously, inch by
inch, edged across the main room toward Sark’s bunk.

Her figure as she crept was now lost in shadow, now etched out faintly
by the leaping flamelight. She moved apparently without stepping, with
the peculiar gliding grace that is the inheritance of North-born people.

The irregularities of the slab floor seemed to lose stability, to become
fluid and flow under her feet like waves in a rapid. Not once did her
moccasincd toes strike knot or scam. Not once did the limber slabs
shriek as they bowed and sprung. Not once did the sleeping huskies stir
from their dreams by the stove. She reached the bunk, and her mobile
fingers closed on the weapon.

Sark faced outward as he slept.

The rifle lay on the blankets between his back and the wall, free of his
touch except where his shoe-packed foot curled over the heel of the
stock.

Blera had the rifle by the barrel, and slowly, with a motion so gentle
as to be scarcely perceptible, she began to twist loose the butt.

She had nearly succeeded when she saw the twitching of muscles round
Sark’s closed eyes.

Swiftly she released the weapon and with a lithe swing of her body
stretched herself along the outer edge of the bunk. Her arms were about
Sark’s neck, and her voice was whispering in his ear when he half awoke.

“Eric,” she whispered hurriedly, hysterically, “I’ve come back—stolen
out of there while he slept. We got to go away—together. He was never—”

But Sark awakened fully.

“You cursed vampire!” he gritted. “Get off. Get away from me. I don’t
want the touch of your hands. Aren’t you seeing you’re poison and
pollution to me?”

He half arose on one knee, roughly thrusting her from the bunk, and even
as he repulsed her, the touch of her arms brought the thrill of another
day, a day when his hours had been full of dream and desire, of marvel
and of miracle, when Blera had been a splendor and a vision to him and
lain in honor by his side.

For a reeling moment he saw not this woman who was poison and pollution
to him. His eyes were fixed, seer-like, upon the panels of those
vanished days, upon the words and smiles and deeds and delights of
another woman tapestried in golden story upon the snow-white curtain of
the North, days before he had come into the companionship of Tom Bassett
and discovered the love that passeth the love of woman.

And that short moment of Sark’s unwariness was his undoing and Blera’s
opportunity. Right before his unseeing eyes her swift hands grasped the
rifle, and like another Delilah, turned Philistine against her Samson,
she crashed the butt across his temple.

Sark’s face turned blank. He quivered a little, poised on one knee, and
collapsed in the bunk.

“Jose, quick!”

But she did not need to cry. Cantine had seen from the chink in the
back-room door and run as she struck.

“Blera, you didn’t—”

“No, no! Only stunned! And he’s stirring already. Be sharp! Get the
dog-harness. Down, you brutes!”

The awakened dogs had sprung up snarling, but Blera had a formidable
weapon in the rifle, and she bludgeoned them on the heads with the butt.
Jose, too, sprang for the long-lashed dog-whip, coiled on pegs on the
wall, and flayed them into subjection. “Now the harness, quick, Jose!”

                                  ――――

Still using the butt of his whip to keep the victory already gained,
Cantine threw the harness on the ugly beasts and haled them out into the
piercing cold. Blera tossed down the sled up-ended by the door. Rapidly
they traced in the huskies, whining resentfully at being lashed and
dragged from the warmth of the cabin out into a temperature of
fifty-five below, and cast themselves on the sled.

“Mush!” roared Cantine, bringing down the whip.

Under the dreaded lash the shivering team dashed down the bank and
headed up the ice of the Klokhok. The steel-shod sled-runners shrieked a
shrill tune. The ice boomed to their flying passage.

High in the heavens overhead flashed the brilliant stars and the
mid-Winter aurora. There was in the hearts of Blera and Jose no remorse,
no regret, not even pity. There was only devilish recklessness and the
sheer exultation of escape. Continually they urged on the dogs to
greater speed, lashing them till Skookum the leader flung up his nose as
he galloped and howled a protest.

And challenging Skookum’s howl, from around the abrupt bend they were
taking at express-train speed broke the tumultuous cry of many wolf-dogs
on the arctic night.

As if suddenly revealed by a lightning flash Jose and Blera glimpsed
them right ahead, the murderous hunt-pack from Tutchi’s Village sweeping
the river-ice one hundred strong with one lone cross-fox straining from
their jaws. An instant they glimpsed them, then in the belly of the
bend, fox, team, sled and hunt-pack collided in a heap.

Cantine had loosened his grip on the sled to grasp the rifle in defense,
and the smashing impact catapulted him clear into the heart of the
horde.

One moment Blera watched him sink in a sea of bristling fur and
slavering fangs before she beheld the same sea surging upon her, the sea
which was the concrete force of the inimical wild, strong, sure, more
ruthless even than the persecuting Bassett or the avenging hand of Eric
Sark.

                                  ――――

Two weeks later, Tom Bassett, returning from Dawson City up the
Nordenskold River and swinging through the night down the Klokhok River
to his partner’s cabin on the Nordenskold Trail, drove over a rattling
heap of debris at the first bend above the Klokhok’s mouth. Curiously he
swerved his sled back to investigate, and one brief look before he
whipped on showed the remnants of a broken sled mingled with gnawed
husky and human bones glistening white under a rising moon.

He whipped on fast and burst into the cabin upon Sark who with a bandage
over a deep cut on his temple was forking bacon from a frying-pan on the
stove on to a plate.

“Eric,” Tom greeted with a tremor of relief in his voice, “I struck
somethin’ upriver, and I wasn’t—well, sure, you know!”

“I’ve had visitors since you left,” replied Sark grimly.

“Eh?” Bassett put out a sympathetic hand. “But Eric, you didn’t—”

“No,” returned his partner, gripping the extended hand, “the hunt-pack
saved me the trouble. Sit in and have supper!”




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HUNT PACK ***




A Word from Project Gutenberg


We will update this book if we find any errors.

This book can be found under: https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/65272

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so
the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright royalties.
Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this
license, apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic
works to protect the Project Gutenberg™ concept and trademark. Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge
for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission. If you do not
charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is
very easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as
creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research.  They
may be modified and printed and given away – you may do practically
_anything_ in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S.
copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,
especially commercial redistribution.



The Full Project Gutenberg License


_Please read this before you distribute or use this work._

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or
any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
https://www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1. General Terms of Use & Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works


*1.A.* By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the
terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all
copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession. If you
paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™
electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this
agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you
paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

*1.B.* “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things
that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even
without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph
1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™
electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help
preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. See
paragraph 1.E below.

*1.C.* The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in
the collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an
individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and
you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent
you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating
derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project
Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support the
Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting free access to electronic works
by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms
of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated
with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others.


*1.D.* The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg™ work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning the
copyright status of any work in any country outside the United States.

*1.E.* Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

*1.E.1.* The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work on
which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase
“Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed,
viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United
    States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with
    almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away
    or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License
    included with this eBook or online at https://www.gutenberg.org
    .  If you are not located in the United States, you’ll have to
    check the laws of the country where you are located before using
    this ebook.

*1.E.2.* If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is derived
from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not contain a
notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright
holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the United
States without paying any fees or charges. If you are redistributing or
providing access to a work with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”
associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with
the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission
for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set
forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

*1.E.3.* If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

*1.E.4.* Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

*1.E.5.* Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

*1.E.6.* You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than
“Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ web site
(https://www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or
expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a
means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original
“Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include
the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

*1.E.7.* Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless
you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

*1.E.8.* You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided
that

  - You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
    the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method you
    already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to
    the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to
    donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60
    days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally
    required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty payments
    should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4,
    “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
    Archive Foundation.”

  - You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License.
    You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the
    works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and
    all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works.

  - You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

  - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.


*1.E.9.* If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth
in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The Project Gutenberg
Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact
the Foundation as set forth in Section 3. below.

*1.F.*

*1.F.1.* Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your
equipment.

*1.F.2.* LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES – Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability
to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. YOU AGREE
THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF
WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.
YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE
NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

*1.F.3.* LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND – If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

*1.F.4.* Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS,’ WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

*1.F.5.* Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

*1.F.6.* INDEMNITY – You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg™
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™


Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s goals
and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will remain freely
available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and
permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations. To learn
more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how
your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the
Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org .


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state
of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue
Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification number is
64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S.
federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its volunteers
and employees are scattered throughout numerous locations. Its business
office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116,
(801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation


Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without wide spread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the
number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely
distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest array of
equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to
$5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with
the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations where
we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit https://www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside
the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways
including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,
please visit: https://www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic
works.


Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg™
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

    https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including
how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to
our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
