The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Scarlet Shoulders; or, The Miner
Rangers, by Harry Hazard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Scarlet Shoulders; or, The Miner Rangers
       Beadle's Pocket Novels No. 77

Author: Harry Hazard

Release Date: September 27, 2021 [eBook #66407]

Language: English


Produced by: David Edwards, Stephen Hutcheson, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Northern Illinois
             University Digital Library)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SCARLET SHOULDERS; OR, THE
MINER RANGERS ***




                                  THE
                           SCARLET SHOULDERS;
                                  OR,
                           THE MINER RANGERS.


                            BY HARRY HAZARD.
                 AUTHOR OF THE FOLLOWING POCKET NOVELS:

  38. The Heart Eater.
  43. The White Outlaw.
  54. Arkansas Jack.
  66. Rattling Dick.
  71. Delaware Tom.
  79. Outlaw Jack.


                               NEW YORK:
                     BEADLE AND ADAMS, PUBLISHERS,
                           98 WILLIAM STREET.

       Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by
                           FRANK STARR & CO.,
       In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.




                                CONTENTS


  I The Tragedy                                                        9
  II A Story Told and a Surprise                                      17
  III Marcos Sayosa, the Young Miner                                  25
  IV The Miner’s Riot                                                 33
  V The Rescue                                                        39
  VI Carlita                                                          47
  VII Felipe’s Visitor                                                54
  VIII A Fearful Peril                                                60
  IX The Jarocho’s Prisoner                                           69
  X Felipe’s Confession                                               77
  XI In the Cave and Out of It                                        86
  XII Explanations                                                    95




                         THE SCARLET SHOULDERS;
                                  OR,
                           THE MINER RANGERS.




                               CHAPTER I.
                              THE TRAGEDY.


“_Indios—Indios bravos!_” yelled Manuel Navaja, as he discharged his
_escopette_ full at the glowing disk of old Sol; then dropping it, he
rushed through the outer gates, sounding the terrible words at every
step, his affright being shared by all the _peons_ who heard him, and,
leaving their posts, one and all swarmed to the main building.

There is a spell—a fascination like that of a rattlesnake—that none but
the dweller in “the land of the sun” can know. Young and old, men, women
and children felt it now, and all rushed into the _hacienda_, only
intent upon their own safety. But a clear, stern voice soared above the
din, above the shouts of men, the shrieks of women and children; and,
aided by his strong arm, that dealt blows upon every hand, he managed to
restore order so far that the inner gates were fastened securely, the
window shutters closed, and doors barred, and then blockaded with such
heavy articles of the furniture as could be moved. The outer gates were
left open; no person would venture there, the _haciendado_ being held
back by a beautiful woman, who twined her arms around him with strength
lent by terror.

Then, with wild yells and whoops, the half nude, paint-bedaubed horde
came swarming through the gateway into the _patio_, or outer courtyard,
while others assailed the building in front. The _peons_ within had been
hastily armed, and opened a scattering fusilade, but with little damage
to the enemy, for in their terror they generally fired at random, as
often with both eyes shut as taking aim.

Then the shock came. The doors shook and creaked under the weight hurled
against them; the hinges slowly yielded, but the barricade held them in
place.

If the majority of the defenders were cowardly, others were there whose
courage amply supplied this deficiency. A tall, stalwart man, of a
singularly handsome and noble countenance, went from post to post,
reproving or encouraging the men in a few quick words, pointing out the
best methods of procedure—at times aiming an _escopette_ with a skill
that spoke well for his marksmanship. This was the _haciendado_, Don
Christobal Canelo, a man of perhaps thirty years of age.

Close behind him was a lady, who, although her face was as pale as
death, betrayed no fear; on the contrary, whenever her husband fired a
shot, and the wild yell of mortal agony followed, a smile of pride swept
athwart her face, and her eyes flashed with an ardor equal to his own.
Then the first fury of the assault was checked, the savages drawing
behind the outbuildings, and, turning to note the extent of the damage
inflicted upon his little band, Canelo noticed the presence of his wife.

“My God, Luzecita, you here! Where is Felipe?”

“With Josefa in the—”

“But you—this is no place for you, my wife. Think, a bullet might—”

“Pardon, Christobal; where should I be if not by my husband’s side?”

“But not now; there is danger. You should be with your child—our boy,”
urged Canelo, affectionately.

“And is there no danger to you?” she added, reproachfully.

“It is my place—my duty to encourage and assist the _peons_. But think,
if you are here, in danger, it will do no good, and only distract me. I
could think of nothing else. If you should be—any thing happen to you,
what would become of our Felipe? Come, let me take you to him, where you
will be safe, at least for the present.”

“And leave you here to be killed?”

“_Mi alma_, if that is to be my fate, your presence could not avert it,
but only make it the more bitter. Your prayers to the blessed Virgin
will strengthen our hands and hearts. Come,” and he led her from the
hall.

“See, _comarados_,” exclaimed Tadeo Campos, the _capataz_, “the
red-skinned devils come again. Show yourselves men now, and true
Mexicans. Fire!”

He was answered by a volley that did some execution, and then the
savages hurled themselves against the shattered door, hewing it with
axes, battering it with beams and logs of wood that they had procured
from the _caballariza_ (stable), while others pummeled the window
screens, or fired at the loop-holes. The _patio_ was filled with smoke,
and through it gleamed the oiled bodies of the Indians, as they flitted
to and fro.

A large hole was now made in the door, and through it shots were
exchanged. But the besieged had the advantage of being in a darkened
room, while the enemy were plainly revealed. From without the shots were
fired at random, although several took effect; but Campos, with his
comrades, taking deliberate aim, made fearful havoc among their
assailants.

But this could not last long. One of the shutters began to give way
before the force applied to it, and the _grills_ of strong iron bars,
called _rega_, were bending inward, and the ranks of the besieged were
really thinned. Then came a loud shout from without, and, with wild
yells of exultation, the savages retreated, to the great joy of the
_peons_, for it seemed as if a few minutes more would see the foe effect
an entrance.

For a few moments all was silence within the building; even the process
of reloading was checked, so eager were they to learn the cause of this
strange maneuver. They could hear a faint hum from without, that told
them the enemy had not yet abandoned the siege. In vain they peered
through the shattered door. The smoke concealed every thing, as it was a
still, foggy day, and it settled heavily upon the earth.

Then came a bright flash, a loud roar, and the _adobes_ by the side of
the door crumbled, while the shock made the entire house tremble. But
one thing could have that effect, and the swarthy faces turned a shade
more ashen as the whisper run around of:

“_Los canones!_”

Where had the cannon come from? there were none belonging to the
_hacienda_. And what were the Indians doing with such a piece? These
were questions that all asked, but none could answer.

If their danger had been great before, now it was increased tenfold. A
few hours, at least, would end the struggle. The fog and smoke might
prevent them from getting range of the doorway for a spell, but not
long; and then one or two balls would open a breach for their entrance.
Another barricade was formed at the other end of the hall, but that
could avail little. The same power would reduce that, and then it would
be hilt to hilt, breast to breast.

At this new phase, Canelo sought the chamber where his wife and child
were, and hastily explained the cause of the commotion.

“And now, Luzecita, you must not remain here. We can not tell what may
happen, and with you and darling Felipe in safety, I can fight with a
better will.”

“And you?”

“My place is here. The _peons_ need my influence to encourage and direct
them.”

“Where you are, I stay—nay, do not interrupt me,” she hastily exclaimed.
“I am your wife, and will live or die with you. The blow that kills you
shall reach my heart at the same time.”

“But it can not be; think—”

“I do think—I have thought, and I will stay. What would life be without
you?” the woman uttered, as she clasped him around the neck.

“My wife, you _must_ listen, and you will see that what I say is best.
Think of our Felipe—what would become of him if these fiends should
overpower us? Remember that not we alone would perish—and you know but
too well the fate a woman would receive at their hands—but he, our
bright, beautiful boy—he, too, would die!”

“Why should he live if we are killed?” faltered the wife.

“Perhaps we may beat them off, then no harm is done. But if the worst is
to be, he will have a parent’s hand—a mother’s love to show him how to
live. Would you doom him to death, and he so brave and innocent? And
then,” as he bent his head and whispered, “think of the one that is to
come; would you—”

“My husband, do not ask me; I can not—can not leave you!” and she clung
to Canelo hysterically, sobbing as though her heart would break.

“Luzecita,” he cried, assuming a stern voice, while the great tears
stood in his eyes, “this is folly. You _must_ go, and soon, or it will
be too late. See, if you refuse, I will kill myself before your eyes!
And then you will have my death upon your soul, as well as that of your
children!” and he held her tightly to his breast as he drew a pistol,
and, cocking it, placed the barrel against his temple.

“Christobal—husband, what would you do?” shrieked his wife, struggling
wildly to free her arms, so that she could avert the weapon.

“I have said, if you will not flee with Felipe—our son—as I believe in
the holy Virgin, I will kill myself!”

“Enough—enough, I will go—my God, I will go!” faintly murmured the lady,
as she swooned from grief and terror.

“This is a deeper pain to me, my darling, than death could bring,” he
murmured, as he gently placed her upon a sofa, while the scalding tears
fell freely from his eyes. “My God, to speak such words to her—my
heart’s darling, when perhaps an hour may part us forever. It is hard,
ah, so hard; but it was for _her_ sake and our child’s,” and then he
hastened from the room, after directing the terrified maid to attend to
her mistress.

As he entered the hall, the cannon was fired for the second time, and
the six-pound ball crashed through the barricade, shattering the
furniture and scattering the splinters in every direction. One of the
_peons_ was killed outright, and several others severely wounded.
Another shot as well aimed would clear the passage so that an entrance
could be effected. Canelo knew that he had no time to spare, if he would
save his dear ones.

As he looked for Tadeo Campos, he heard a loud shout and then the sound
of a struggle in an adjoining room, or pantry, where there was a door
leading out into the garden. Thinking the enemy had effected an
entrance, he rushed to the place, just in time to see the _capataz_
master one of the _peons_, and hurl him to the floor.

“What’s this, Campos? Is not that Pepe Raymon?”

“_Si, senor_,” panted the _capataz_, “and a precious scoundrel he is,
too. What do you think? He was unbarring the door yonder to let in the
savages—the cursed dog!”

“Are you sure, Tadeo?”

“_Carrai!_ yes. He pretended to be badly wounded, but I watched him, and
when he sneaked off here, I followed after, and was just in time, as you
see. The upper bolt is drawn!”

“Then he must be put beyond chance of doing us any further harm. Take
this pistol, and when it is unloaded, come to me. I have work for you to
do.”

He had scarcely passed the door, when the report told that the traitor
had met his doom, and then Campos overtook his master. In a few, quick
words, Canelo told him what he required him to do, and although the
_capataz_ looked any thing but pleased at the task, he dared not hint as
much.

He was to conduct his mistress and child, with the servant, by a rear
exit, from the _hacienda_, trusting that the besiegers would be all
occupied with the cannon and preparing for the assault, in front of the
building, and the dense and smoke-laden fog, to effect their escape
unseen. It would be risky to attempt securing horses, as the stable was
probably occupied by the savages, so they were to hasten on foot to the
_chapparal_, where they could lay concealed until the fate of the
building was settled. It was risky, but would not entail as great danger
as remaining in the building, when in a few minutes more, at the
furthest, a hand-to-hand combat must take place.

Tadeo Campos first reconnoitered the ground, found the way clear, and
then, after a few hasty words of parting, the husband, wife, and child
separated, never more to meet on this earth alive.

And not a minute too soon, either. Another ball hurtled through the
barricade and completed the breach. The _haciendado_ returned to his
men, and formed them into a double rank to meet the onset that he knew
was coming. Over the heads of the kneeling ones, those in the rear
leveled their _escopettes_, nerved with despair, to meet their fate like
men. Many of them were the veriest cowards that lived, but now, under
their master’s eye, and knowing that, while there was no chance of
fleeing, no quarter was to be expected from their red-skinned foes, they
would fight desperately and well.

Then came the rush. There was only a subdued rustling, as of many feet
cautiously planted, and then from the dense fog a horde of the painted
demons rushed into the breach left by the shattered door. Their own
impetuosity came near being fatal to themselves, for, as the crowd
became jammed in the doorway, and entangled in the mass of broken
furniture, the clear, strong tones of Canelo rung out the order to fire.

The double volley, delivered at such close quarters, was withering in
its effects. The savages fell in piles, almost blocking up the entrance,
and the others shrunk back from such a deadly reception. The besieged,
led by Canelo, sprung forward to meet them, with _machetes_, pistols, or
clubbed guns. Then came an order for the savages to rush over their dead
and close hand to hand.

Christobal Canelo started, as if thunderstruck. The order had been given
in _pure Castilian_, and, moreover, he could almost have sworn that he
recognized the voice as that of one whom he had befriended, trusted, and
loved!

And then where did an Indian—a Comanche upon the war-path—learn to speak
that language so perfectly? And to his braves; could they comprehend
him? If so, they must be strange savages.

But he had no further time to ponder over the matter. The savages had
rallied, and tearing their dead comrades from the breach, they swarmed
into the house, led by a tall, sinewy man, who dashed into the midst of
his foes. In vain Canelo strove to meet this person, for he knew that if
their chief was slain, the assailants would probably retreat. But the
savage ever eluded him, ever kept a crowd between him and the
_haciendado_. He wielded a heavy saber that, while it seemed to shed the
blows rained at him, like a magic shield, dealt death or gaping wounds
at every stroke.

Several savages had singled out Canelo, and were pressing him hard. Two
of their number had fallen before his sword, but he was wounded, and the
blood flowed freely. It required all his address and activity to keep
from being clenched from behind by his enemies; but then, as he clove
down the foremost, he dashed to the wall, where he could no longer be
surrounded.

The savages were all around with _sabers or machetes_, and he was fast
failing. Still he met them bravely. A saber laid bare his cheek but the
man who dealt the wound went down the next moment with his head cloven
in twain.

The tall leader of the savages saw this, and, hissing out a fierce oath,
drew his pistol, and, retreating to the wall at a space that was free
from combatants, deliberately aimed at the brave Canelo. The latter saw
nothing of this, as he desperately struggled with his assailants. Then
the finger pressed upon the trigger, and there came a flash, a loud
report, and the _haciendado_ sunk at the feet of his foes, with the
blood slowly oozing from the little discolored hole in the center of his
forehead, a dead man.

His death was noted by a _peon_, and he raised the cry. It was like
depriving a ship in a storm of its rudder, the fall of their leader, and
with but one or two exceptions, the besieged threw down their weapons
and begged for quarter. But the mercy they received was like that
rendered famous in the revolutionary war, as “_Tarleton quarter_.”

One by one they were cut down, even as they kneeled and implored mercy
in the Virgin’s name, and in two minutes after the death of Christobal
Canelo the only survivors were they who wore the paint and trappings of
Comanche warriors; even those who were dying received a finishing
stroke.

The leader did not await this. As soon as he had murdered the
_haciendado_, he left the hall, and proceeded at once, and without
hesitation, to the room where Canelo had so shortly before changed his
wife’s resolve of sharing his fate. He looked through this apartment as
though he was seeking some person, and then ran hurriedly into the other
rooms, but with the same result. What he sought was not there.

Calling to his men in a tone choked with rage and baffled vengeance, he
cried to one, a huge, herculean man:

“_Mil diablos_, Barajo, the birds have both vanished! But they can’t be
gone far, for they were here an hour since. Take you a few men and
circle around the place. Scatter, and look well, for if they are lost,
what we have done here is all for nothing. Find them and a thousand
_pesos_ are yours. _Al monte—al monte! Capa de Dios!_ why do you wait?”
raged the disguised Mexican or Spaniard, for surely an Indian tongue
never mastered the _lingua Espagnol_ so perfectly.

But at length the men returned from a fruitless search, and then, half
wild with rage and disappointment, the leader reluctantly gave the order
for marching, and they filed out from the _hacienda_. The building was
left intact, with the exception of what injury had been done by the
cannon. The outhouses were undisturbed; the stock, both horses and
cloven-footed animals, were abandoned. Truly they were a strange
war-party of Comanches in more ways than one.




                              CHAPTER II.
                      A STORY TOLD AND A SURPRISE.


“_Madre mia_, why so sad this bright and beautiful day, when all should
be as gay and happy as it is out of doors?” exclaimed a young girl, as
she entered the room, and, kneeling at her mother’s feet, lifted the
bowed head, holding it between her two dainty palms, and pressed
affectionate kisses upon the pale cheeks and lips.

“Ah, child, if you knew what anniversary this sad day is, you would not
wonder at my grief,” returned the elder lady, mournfully. “Luisa, child,
how old are you?” she added, half vacantly.

“Why, mother, need you ask that?” laughed her daughter. “I am nearly
nineteen! Almost an old woman, aren’t I?” and her soft, gleesome laugh
again rung out.

“Listen, Luisa; you have never learned the true way in which your
father—my husband, died. But you are old enough now, and I think I can
bear to tell it all. I have been thinking of the past this morning—of
your father and brother, child, who was stolen when you were a babe.”

“_Stolen!_” exclaimed Luisa, eagerly. “I thought you said he was dead?”

“And so he is—he _must_ be, or I should have found him years ago,”
murmured the mother; and then she detailed at length the incidents
embodied in our first chapter, so far as she was conversant with them.

“We lay concealed in the _chapparal_, where the undergrowth was most
dense, Felipe and I, together with Tadeo Campos and Josefa. How we
managed to reach the place, I know not. My mind was distracted with fear
for my husband and my son. And then, as we crouched there, under a
thorny _mezquiti_, we heard the loud shouts and tramping of men, as they
searched for us, and we could hear them speaking _in Spanish_!

“Oh, how my poor heart bounded with joy then, as I thought that my
husband had been victorious, and would have cried aloud to them, if
brave, prudent Tadeo had not placed his hand upon my mouth, and bade me
beware; that he feared they were foes.

“He said that he had suspected the men who had attacked the _hacienda_
were not Indians, although disguised as such, but were Mexicans. Why, he
did not say, but bade me remain quiet for my child’s sake, while he
would reconnoiter, and learn for certain who the voices belonged to that
we had heard. Then he crawled along and was gone but a few moments
before he returned. One glance at his face told me the worst, and I
swooned away in my great grief.

“It was but too true. The _hacienda_ had been taken, and my husband
killed, not by Indians, but by our own countrymen, although who they
were or who led them we never learned. Toward midnight we cautiously
returned to the house, and there I found your father, dead! shot through
the brain!

“It was a horrible sight. The mangled bodies of our brave _peons_ lay in
heaps upon the floor, where they had been slain. Not one of them had
been spared, or escaped that dreadful massacre, save us four. All were
dead!

“The house, as you see, was left standing, the herds were untouched;
nothing, save a few articles of plate and the ready money, was taken.
Surely a war-party of Indians would never act in this manner, and it
further confirmed a belief that the marauders were of our own country.
But what was their object? Alas, I fear it was but to murder all,
although for what reason I know not.

“We mounted our horses and fled from the spot, after burying your
father, and did not rest until we reached the city of Guanajuato, where
we arrived nearly dead from fatigue and hunger, and told our tale to the
kind friends we met there. I dispatched Tadeo Campos, with a note
detailing the sad tragedy, to your uncle Augustin Canelo, who was then
at the city of Mexico.

“He was fearfully enraged and grieved at his brother’s murder, and vowed
to search the world over but he would have revenge. But we could give
him no clue to the assassins. Well, he sent a number of his own _peons_
to the _hacienda_, and when it was renovated we returned to it. He
remained with us at my request, and for a year all went well. He would
be absent for weeks at a time on business connected with his silver
mines, or searching for some trace of the murderers.

“I thought my cup of sorrow was full, even to overflowing, but I had yet
to endure more; another fearful blow awaited me. You, my child, were
nearly six months old, when one day our little Felipe, the darling boy,
so brave and beautiful, and the image of his father, was torn from me.
He had been stolen, but by whom or how, could never be discovered. The
Indians were very troublesome then, and I thought that perhaps they had
stolen, perhaps murdered my son for the sake of the rich clothes and
costly jewels that he wore.

“For long months we searched far and wide for some traces of him, but in
vain. The river and _arroyos_ were dragged, the _chapparal_ searched
inch by inch, but there were no traces found. In my grief I thought I
should die, but it was denied me. And now do you wonder at my sorrow? On
this day, nineteen years ago, my husband was murdered; one year later,
on the same day, your brother Felipe disappeared—perhaps met the same
fate!” and she bowed her head upon her hands, while the hot, scalding
tears trickled through her fingers.

The girl at her feet sat in silence, her dark eyes dimmed at the
tragical tale she had just listened to. Her sorrow was less than that of
her mother, for her brother she could not remember, and the father her
eyes had never rested upon, seemed but in a remote degree associated
with herself. It was a subject that her mother had ever avoided, and
Luisa was too gay and light-hearted to press the topic; so it is not to
be wondered at that she did not feel the intense grief that agitated the
form of her mother.

No one who could have seen her then would have pronounced her other than
beautiful. She was rather under the medium size, but so perfectly
proportioned that she appeared taller. Her large, lustrous black eyes
were shaded by lashes of the deepest jet, and her finely-arched eyebrows
were of the same sable hue. Glossy black tresses were braided like a
coronet around her finely-formed head, whence a mass of fine ringlets
flowed over a neck and shoulders which would have been considered fair
even in our land of blonde beauties, and in her sunny clime were deemed
white as the newly-fallen snow. A stranger’s eye would detect and dwell
upon the faintly dark shading on her upper lip, that in a youth might
have been termed an incipient mustache. But is it a blemish? Her friends
thought otherwise. It but added another attraction to her piquant
beauty.

Her mother was slightly taller, but the same contour of face and great
resemblance, although somewhat impaired by time and sorrow, showed that
Senora Luzecita Canelo lived again in her daughter Luisa.

They were aroused by a light tap at the half-opened door, and glanced
around.

“Well Josefa, what is it?” said Luisa.

The old nurse entered the room on tiptoe, as if fearful of disturbing
the mistress, and whispered, in a low tone:

“It is a stranger, _’na_ Luisa, on particular business, he says, and—”

“Well, where is Sarguela; he attends to all such, as you know, Josefa,”
interrupted the maiden, a little impatiently.

“Don Garcia is with him, but he says he must see the senora; that his
business is for her ear alone,” hesitated Josefa.

“Wishes to see _me_,” asked the lady, looking up. “What and who is he?”

“That he will not tell; but he is a handsome _cavallero_, and—pardon me,
lady, if I say that he is a perfect image of _el coronel_ when I first
saw him.”

“Of my husband?” exclaimed the lady, as her face flushed. “And young,
say you? Oh, Santissima Virgin, if it should be—ah, no, he is dead long
since,” she murmured; then added: “Go, Josefa, and show him here. I will
see him.”

In a few moments the old nurse, as she was still called, returned and
ushered in the persistent stranger. At first he appeared somewhat
abashed and ill at ease, for the ladies had arisen and were facing the
door in half eager expectation, and quickly doffing his hat he made a
stiff, slightly awkward bow.

“My heart, the picture!” faltered Senora Canelo, pointing to a
full-length portrait of her husband, hanging against the wall.

Luisa instantly checked the smile that lurked around her rosy mouth,
called forth by the _outre_ demeanor of the stranger, and she too
uttered an exclamation as she glanced from the face to the picture.

“I crave your pardon, ladies, if I appear rude, but I have seen so
little of society, that for a moment I was dazzled,” he apologized, in a
soft, musical tone. “Am I right in thinking I address Senora Canelo?”

“That is my name, senor; and yours?”

“Alas, lady, _once_ I would not have hesitated in replying _Felipe
Barana_; but now, if this packet does not give me a name, I know not
that I have one,” replied the youth, in a mournful tone, as he advanced
and placed a small parcel, securely tied and sealed, in the trembling
hand of the senora.

“Felipe—he said Felipe, and then that face,” murmured she, as she sunk
heavily into the chair she had just quitted, and with trembling fingers
began to untie the package.

“Be seated, senor,” said Luisa, motioning to a chair, and placing one
for herself, so as to partially screen her mother, whom she saw was
strangely perturbed.

Senora Canelo tore the wrapper apart, and laying upon an inner package
was a note superscribed with her name, in a bold, firm hand that seemed
familiar. It was unsealed, and opening its folds, she hurriedly glanced
at the contents. Then, with a wild cry, she started to her feet, and
advanced a step toward the stranger, but her limbs refused to do their
duty, and she sunk to the floor in a swoon.

Luisa bent over her, shrieking for help, and as she loosened the throat
of her mother’s dress she caught the words:

“_Felipe—my son—thank God!_”

Josefa came rushing in, and unceremoniously hustled the stranger out of
the room, and set about restoring her mistress.

“Never fear, _’na_ Luisa, it is only a fainting fit; there’s no cause of
alarm. In a few moments it will be over.”

“Are you sure, Josefa, are you sure?” eagerly queried the sobbing girl.
“_Ay de mi!_ She looks like dead!”

“No, no; it’s nothing—nothing at all. Why, bless you, child, she’s had
thousands of them!” returned the old nurse, exaggerating a little, the
better to reassure Luisa. “See, the color comes to her lips, and, praise
the Virgin, her eyes open!”

“Oh, mother, mother, I thought you were dead!”

“Where—where is he—Felipe, my son?” and the lady half raised from the
lounge, glancing eagerly around the room, then sinking back, she wailed,
“_Nuestra Madre de los Merced!_ it was all a dream, a cruel, bitter
dream!”

“No, no, it was no dream; he is here—the stranger, I mean, who looks so
much like papa’s portrait. And see, here is the letter he gave you!”
exclaimed Luisa, placing the note in her mother’s hand.

“Call—but no, I must have been mistaken; _he_ is dead long, long since!
My daughter, read what _it_ says, to me; my eyes are blurred, and I can
not see.”

Luisa opened the note with intense curiosity, but then looked up in
surprise.

“Why, mother, it is from Uncle Augustin!”

“Yes, go on—read, quick!”

  “My deeply-wronged sister:” it began, “when you read this, I shall be
  no more. I am dying, and the _padre_ tells me that, before the sun
  goes down, I shall be dead. How this occurred, the bearer of this, my
  dying confession, will tell you. I have deeply wronged you and yours,
  and stained my soul with a horrible crime; but now make reparation as
  far as lies in my power. Listen, and, in God’s mercy, do not curse me
  after I am dead! _I_ hired the men who, disguised as Comanches,
  attacked the _hacienda_ nineteen years ago, and by my hand, _my
  brother_—your husband—died! I was mad, crazy, but I loved you, and
  thought that, if he was out of the way, in time you would listen to my
  suit. Then I caused your son, Felipe, to be stolen, and at the time
  meant to kill him, for I was poor, and he stood between me and wealth.
  But my heart failed me, and he yet lives, a noble, brave boy, who
  looks at me with _your_ eyes and his father’s face. I can not tell you
  all I would of my reasons for the crimes I confess, for my strength is
  fast failing. But I will send this by YOUR SON, although he knows not
  who his parents are. I inclose the jewels and a scarf that he wore
  when he was first abducted, so that you may have no doubt. And now
  listen to my prayer, the last I shall ever make. I know I have been
  fearfully guilty, yet I do not think I could rest in my grave if you
  should curse me as the murderer of your husband. I do not ask for
  forgiveness, but that you will strive to forget me; as though I had
  never been born. May the holy Virgin ever smile upon and guard you,
  and cause the son I return to your heart to be a joy and a blessing.
  As I hope for mercy hereafter, he is your only son, Felipe.

                                                      “Augustin Canelo.”

The mother did not speak while this strange letter was being read, but
pressed both hands tightly upon her bosom, as if to still the painful
throbbings of her heart, while the breath came in gasps from between her
pallid lips. When the last word was pronounced, she essayed in vain to
arise; then, as she sunk back, feebly whispered to Luisa, who was
scarcely less agitated than herself:

“Go, Luisa; go bring YOUR BROTHER to me!”

The sister needed no further prompting, but sped away like a startled
fawn to the room where her brother had been so unceremoniously consigned
by Josefa. He was pacing rapidly to and fro, his handsome countenance
expressing no small degree of wonder and perplexity.

“Felipe, my brother, don’t you know your little sister, Luisa?” she
cried, and throwing her arms around his broad shoulders, stood on
tip-toe to press her lips to his.

He was startled, as well he might be, but the tempting lips, pouting out
like twin cherries, would have enticed far older and more sedate hearts
than his, and clasping her to his breast, he pressed kiss after kiss
upon her blushing face, with an ardor that half alarmed her. Truly, it
would be pleasant, really pleasant, to be a big brother, if all sisters
were like Luisa. But the voice of the mother was heard from within,
calling him to hasten, and Luisa said:

“Come, Felipe, brother; come to mother,” and together they entered the
room.

Old Josefa stole out from the apartment, and we will follow her example,
for the meeting between the long-parted ones was sacred. But an hour
afterward the three were seated close together, while before them lay
the jewels and scarf that the mother instantly recognized, and they
removed any doubt that she could have entertained as to the reality of
the youth’s identity.

“Do you recollect nothing whatever of this place, Felipe?” asked his
mother.

“I can not just now. Perhaps it will come back to me when I am a little
less bewildered. Remember what a surprise I have had; I, who thought I
was alone in the world, without even a _name_,” he replied, as he kissed
first one and then the other.

“No; the first I can remember is being in a little village on a
mountain’s side, and then it changes to a vast and gloomy cavern, with
wild-looking men all around me. I know now that they were Jarochos and a
sort of _guerilleros_, who robbed; but I never knew of their shedding
blood, unless in a quarrel between themselves. And as I grew older I
became one of them. Do not start, or look so terrified, for you must
remember that I knew no better. It was the way I had been taught and I
thought all men were like us.

“The man whom I called father—your uncle, Luisa, who went by the name of
Don Serapio Barana—was the chief or leader of the band, and he taught me
this, and gave me the education I have; him and _padre_ Gayferos. He
would often be gone for weeks and months at a time, and then the
lieutenant, Lopez Romulo, would be left in command. He was a wicked,
cruel man, and I hated him!” Felipe added, while his eyes flashed and a
hand crept to the jeweled hilt of the poniard that peeped from his
bosom.

“Twice he insulted me so bitterly that, if it had not have been for
those around me, I would have slain him like a dog, as he is. Well, one
day, perhaps two weeks since, when I returned from a hunt of several
days’ duration, I found Don Barana at the point of death. How it
happened I only could learn that he had been wounded in an attack upon a
_conducta de plata_” (convoy of silver), “in which the band had been
repulsed with severe loss. Then he told me that he was not my father,
but that he would send me with a package, and the one who received it
would tell me all concerning who and what I was. He made me promise to
deliver the packet into no hands but your own, as I valued my future.

“Then _padre_ Gayferos dismissed us all from the room or chamber in the
cave, as he wished to receive his last confession. In a few minutes they
told me he was dead, and then I took a last farewell of my rough but
kind friends. I amused myself on the long journey with picturing what
would be my reception—who I would turn out to be; but ah, _mi almas_,
the most romantic air castle did not realize the truth!” he exclaimed,
as he caressed his newly-found relatives.

“Oh, my children,” murmured the mother, “this has ever been a fearful,
horrible anniversary for me, hitherto, but now it will be divided with
joy. On it I lost a dear husband and a son; but the one is an angel in
heaven, where he is now smiling down upon us, and the other is here! Oh,
my son, my Felipe, we must never more part in this world. For eighteen
years I have mourned for you, and—”

“And now, for thrice that long we will rejoice together!” exclaimed
Luisa joyously, as she nestled closer against her brother’s arm, looking
lovingly up into his handsome face.




                              CHAPTER III.
                    MARCOS SAYOSA, THE YOUNG MINER.


The _venta_ of _tia_ Joaquina was widely celebrated among the miners of
Los Rayas for the excellence of its liquors, the fine flavor of its
_cigarettes_, and the buxom beauty of _el patrona_, or “the hostess.”
Situated on the outskirts of Guanajuato, it was allowed a little more
license then would have been shown it, had it stood in a more
respectable portion of the city. Many a night of wild revelry, drinking,
carousing, quarreling, and fighting had been passed there by the
hotheaded young miners of the surrounding country, without fear of being
interrupted by the entrance of the _alguazils_, to wind up their
festivities by a morning visit at the _levee_ of the _alcalde_.

Many a tragic scene had those old walls witnessed, either within or
without, as the miners of Los Rayas, as a general thing, are not over
punctilious in regard to the shedding of blood when their veracity or
honor is deemed brought in question.

A young man was slowly approaching the _venta_, and although he kept his
hand upon the haft of his _cuchillo_, it was more from habit than
caution, for he was evidently in a deep reverie. But when he reached the
door of the _posada_, he threw off this feeling, and entering the room,
was met by the _patrona_, a large, handsome woman of perhaps forty
years.

“Well, _’nor_ Marcos, you are here at last,” she exclaimed, warmly
greeting the miner, who was an especial favorite with her. “The
_cavalleros_ have given you up, and, as you can hear, are enjoying
themselves hugely,” she added, as a burst of laughter came from beyond a
thickly-listed door.

“Yes, _tia_ Joaquina, I was delayed, and even now, if I must confess the
truth, I own more than half inclined to give the lads a cold shoulder
to-night. I am not in the humor for revelry,” said he, in a low voice,
that sounded rich and deep as the tones of a flute.

“_P’r Dios_, that would never do! There is business to be done to-night.
I believe they have heard that on the morrow the _Melladios_ are going
to try the strength of your ‘Scarlet Shoulders,’ and see if the defeat
you gave them at the last—”

“By the Virgin of Atocha! but that is good news,” exclaimed Marcos, his
full, black eyes sparkling with ardor. “We will teach the—”

“_H’la, ’na_ Joaquina!” shouted a voice, as the door was opened and a
head thrust through the aperture from within. “Bring some more—_mira,
comarados_, the capitan is making love to Santa Joaquina!” he yelled, as
he caught sight of the young miner.

“Treason—treason!” they shouted, as several rushed forth, and,
clustering around Marcos, forced him laughingly into the room, where he
was greeted with cheers and _vivas_, that testified to his popularity.

It was a long, low-ceiled room, the rude _adobe_ walls white-washed, but
the rough rafters overhead were black with smoke and festooned with
cobwebs, the accumulations of years. A rough table ran the entire length
of the room, with a narrow passage at either end. Along the sides and
secured to the walls were small stands, intended for three persons each,
and all equally guiltless of cloth or covering of any kind. Lights were
suspended from overhead, and, with candles stuck in niches around the
walls, illumined the room sufficiently for the purpose.

A thick, hazy cloud of smoke now filled every crevice, being supplied by
the glowing _cigarette_ that each man held, some forty in number. Before
them were scattered various utensils that were, or had been, full of
liquor. Tin and bone cups, stone jugs and leather bottles, in every
possible position that such utensils could possibly assume, covered the
table. The _patrona_ was far too careful of her crockery to intrust it
in such hands, even though sure of being paid for the damage done. It
was too scarce a commodity.

He who was called Marcos Sayosa finally seated himself at one of the
side tables, with two of his more particular friends, who quickly
enlightened him as to the truth of the subject hinted at by Joaquina. To
understand it more fully, the reader must know that the men who worked
in Los Rayas, and those of Mellado, a neighboring mine, were bitter
rivals, each party contending that their mine was the richest and best,
and many were the contests, both single and _en masse_, that had taken
place; all leaving the point in question as far from being settled as
ever. It had reached such a point that regular organizations were formed
on both sides, with officers chosen, signals and passwords arranged, and
the office of _spy_ was well rewarded. Of the miners from Rayas, who had
gained the _soubriquet_, “Scarlet Shoulders,” from the knot of ribbon of
that color they wore around their left shoulder, Marcos Sayosa was the
chief, while a middle-aged man, Perico Fuenter by name, commanded the
opposition. The two war-cries, “Rayas” or “Mellado,” were as famous and
promptly answered as that of the ’prentices in London of “clubs.” When
they were heard, those not belonging to the faction barred their doors,
and sought such place of security as they could find.

“You see,” said Lucas Planillas, the second in command, “they swear they
will go through the town on the morrow, and make every man drink to the
health of their cursed hole, and vow that it is far superior to our
blessed mine.”

“I wish them joy of the attempt,” sneered Marcos, “but this—this spy;
who is he? I never heard of him before as I know of.”

“Sylva Cohecho is his name. But who he is I know not, save that he gave
the signals and grips all correct. Look, yonder he is, at the next
table. Shall I call him?”

“No, no; I wish to take a good look at the gentleman first. So, that is
he?”

The man that he looked upon was one that would have attracted attention
in any company, not for his beauty, either of face or person; on the
contrary, he was rather under-sized, but had the head and shoulders of a
giant. As he faced the captain, with one arm dangling by the side of his
seat, the immense length of arm and deepness of his chest was fully
revealed. His cheeks and chin was covered with a stiff, bristly mass of
grizzled hair of much more recent growth than his mustache, the ends of
which rested upon his shoulders. He was dressed in the usual holiday
garb of the _mineros_, and from beneath the slouched brim of his straw
hat one piercing black eye glanced around the room. The bridge of his
nose was wanting, the purple scar showing that it had been mutilated by
the same blow that had deprived him of his eye. Altogether he was not
exactly the person a traveler would be pleased to meet upon a solitary
road. And so thought Marcos.

“_Voto a Brios, ’nor_ Lucas, but he is a hang-dog looking fellow. Are
you sure he is not a spy upon the wrong side?” muttered Sayosa.

“You know as much about him as I do,” returned Planillas. “But if you
suspect, better end it before harm is done. Say but the word, a nod, and
he will never trouble any one, unless it is his master, the devil,”
significantly tapping the hilt of his knife that peeped from his shirt
frill.

“No, Planillas; at least not until I have had speech with him. The
_mezcal_ he is using so freely may loosen his tongue after awhile. But
have you sent messengers to the rest of the band?”

“By daylight the city will be full, and all prepared for business,” said
the lieutenant, as he lighted another cigar.

They sat conversing in whispers for some time, forming their plans for
the expected assault, and drinking but sparingly. Then the young captain
heard a name mentioned that made him start from his chair and listen
intently.

“_H’la, ’nor_ Carlos,” shouted a young man across the table, “you know
how you were foiled by that little Carlita, the one who lives with old
_tio_ Tomas? Here is a _cavallero_ who has been smiled upon by the
Virgin, ay, and the black-eyed _doncella_, too!”

“Who is it you mean. Not yourself, I hope,” replied the man addressed, a
little sarcastically.

“Not so happy. But I referred to Senor Don Despierto here.”

“’Tis true, _senores cavalleros_,” added Despierto, with mock modesty.
“I saw the beautiful Carlita, and as I had nothing of greater importance
on my hands, I laid siege to her affections, and—succeeded.”

“By Venus, the cunning little prude, and she would not so much as even
look at me!” murmured Don Carlos. “But how far did you succeed?”

“How far can—”

“Hold, Senor Despierto!” shouted Marcos, as he leaped forward and
grasped the speaker by the shoulder. “_Por todos de Santos!_ if you do
not retract that base calumny, and say that you foully lied of one who
is as pure as the holy Virgin herself, I will tear your tongue out by
the roots, and force it down your throat!” he hissed, compressing his
fingers until it seemed they would meet through the yielding flesh.

“_Mil demonios_, if you were twice my captain, you should answer for
this,” gritted Estevan Despierto. “Unloose your hand, or I’ll unloosen
it with a dose of steel.”

“Bah, if you looked on a knife you’d turn pale and run like a _coyote_!”
said Marcos, as he hurled the other from his seat, half way through the
crowd that had gathered around the disputants.

“Look out, Marcos; he’s drawn his _cuchillo_,” cautioned Planillas, as
he leaped before his captain, who was prepared for the attack of his
foe. “_Abojo—abojo los armas_ (down with your weapons). Do you think
there are no bodies to carve but those of your friends? Remember the
_Melladios_!” he added.

“Peace, _’nor_ Planillas. He must either retract his words, and
acknowledge he was lying, or not all the saints will save him from my
vengeance,” calmly, but bitterly said Sayosa.

“A Despierto is not a Sayosa. He never denies his word,” sneered Don
Estevan.

“Enough. Stand aside, _comarados_, and let us end this,” gritted Marcos,
drawing his _cuchillo_ and wrapping a _frazada_ (a woolen cloak) around
his left arm.

“_H’la, senores_,” called a voice from the crowd. “Fair play! let them
fight upon the great table, so we can all see the sport.”

Ready for any thing that was novel, the _mineros_ soon cleared the
table, by brushing the drinking utensils upon the floor—thus proving the
_patrona’s_ prudence in abjuring crockery. A few minutes sufficed for
this, and then the combatants leaped upon the table, prepared for the
_sport_, while the spectators crowded around the arena, or stood upon
the little stands by the side of the walls, eagerly staking their money
upon the first wound and result of the duel.

Marcos had doffed his hat and outer _jayneta_, revealing a
closely-fitting garment of quilted silk. A sash was tightly bound around
his waist, and a handkerchief secured his long hair from falling over
his face. His antagonist was prepared much like the same. They were both
handsome, well-built and hardened men, but there was a peculiar look
about Despierto, that could only result from dissipation and excesses,
that was not visible in his adversary, and the older gamesters freely
laid their money against him. They knew that in a prolonged contest he
must go down before his more temperate foe.

“_Andela!_” (forward), shouted Lucas Planillas.

At the word both men bounded forward, and their knives met with a clash
that sent showers of tiny sparks to the table. Then their thrusts and
blows were made so quickly, the parries and changes of position were so
rapid, that the eye could not follow them. It was like the rapid
shifting of the kaleidoscope when quickly turned. The eye could catch
the motion, but ere it could fix the details, another combination would
obliterate its predecessor.

Despierto was slowly being forced back, or retreated from policy, when,
as Marcos stood near the edge of the table, Sylva Cohecho—he who had
brought the news of the intended attack by the _Melladios_—thrust forth
a hand, and strove to catch the young miner by the foot. If he had
succeeded it must have been fatal, for Estevan would have profited by
the stumble, and ended the combat then and there. But Lucas’ eye caught
the motion in time to frustrate it, and as he delivered a swift blow
behind the spy’s ear with his clenched fist, an adroit trip of the foot
sent him headlong under the table.

“Cursed crookback, you would do murder?” yelled Planillas, drawing his
knife and diving under the table just as Cohecho crowded out through the
crowd, who were ignorant of the cause of the disturbance.

He ran to the door, and turning, saw Lucas dart forward. Drawing a
pistol from his belt, he fired at the youth, the bullet piercing his
_sombrero_, while a faint yell and heavy fall among the spectators told
that the bullet had not been entirely harmless. Cohecho saw Planillas
stagger, and thinking his aim had been true, burst open the door with a
strong pull, and rushed through the bar-room, gaining the open street in
safety, sending back a wild, taunting laugh of triumph.

Further pursuit would be worse than useless, so the miners returned to
the room where the fight was still in progress, and a little knot
gathered around the dead body of a youth, who had been shot through the
brain by the missile intended for Planillas. The latter only gave one
glance at the victim, and then turned to view the duel.

They were both wounded, but evidently not very severely. The
perspiration ran in streams from their bronzed faces. Marcos adroitly
unrolled the _frazada_ that enveloped his left arm until it nearly
reached the floor. And, as the motions of his knife were thus concealed,
penetrated his antagonist’s guard, and sent his long blade to the hilt
in Despierto’s body.

But an attempted parry of the latter diverted the aim slightly, and
instead of passing between his ribs, as was intended, the knife glanced
into his back, inflicting a painful flesh wound, but not disabling the
duelist. The force of the blow, however, staggered him, and he fell upon
his back, as his foot slipped upon some blood. Marcos kicked the knife
from his grasp, and then kneeling upon his breast, pressed the point of
his knife against the man’s throat.

“Now, base liar, unsay the words, or by the Virgin of Atocha, I will
kill you like a dog!”

“I am Don Estevan Despierto!” scornfully replied the defeated duelist,
as though in those words were contained his answer to the threat.

“Once more I ask you. If you do not, before I count ten, you will never
speak again!”

“Bah! your arm is not strong enough, nor your heart brave enough to kill
a man,” sneered Despierto, vindictively struggling to free himself.

For a moment all was breathless silence in the room. Naught was heard
but the half-choked breathing of the man, who, laying upon his back,
with a foeman’s knees pressing into his breast—the dull, red gleam of
the long knife that had already drank his blood, as it was poised above
his throat, glancing full in his eyes, quailed not, but glowered
fiercely at his conqueror, as if daring the final blow. Then a faint
murmur ran around the room, half of admiration, half of pity for the
bold, strong-hearted man who was about to meet his death. But no one
offered to interfere; had he done so, a score of knives would have
confronted him. By the miner’s laws of the entire country, Despierto’s
life was forfeited to his victor, to be taken when and how his fancy
might dictate. Still, a shudder ran over the spectators as the voice of
the young miner began to count; it had a hard, metallic ring to it, that
appeared to fill the entire room, like the clanging of a huge bell.

“_Uno, dos, tres, cuatro, cinco, seis, siete, ocho_—”

But he counted no further, for the door was thrown violently open, and
Joaquina rushed in from the bar-room, screaming:

“_Valga me Dios, cavalleros_, you are betrayed! The accursed _Melladios_
are here. _Hay mucho—muchissimos!_” (they are many.)

Instantly all was confusion. Several of those nearest the door ran out
to the entrance to see if it was not a false alarm, while the rest
hastily possessed themselves of their firearms that were stacked in the
corner of the room. Marcos Sayosa arose from the prostrate body of his
foe, and said:

“We will settle this affair afterward. Now, every man is needed. Will
you help your comrades?”

“I belong to the band,” haughtily replied Despierto, “and will do my
duty. You will not have to search for me, if we are both alive after we
chastise these beggarly hounds.”

“Good! I will trust you.”

A loud roar, as of many voices, was heard from without, closely followed
by a volley of firearms, and then two of the “Scarlet Shoulders”
re-entered, bearing between them the wounded body of their comrade.




                              CHAPTER IV.
                           THE MINER’S RIOT.


“_Anda, comarados_,” shouted Sayosa, “push the table against the door,
quick; the _ladrones_ are here!”

This was performed, but none too soon, for, as the massive table was
thrust against the closed door, a rush was heard in the outer room, and
the assailants gave it a fearful shock; but thanks to its brace, the
heavy puncheon did not give way, although it shook upon its hinges. A
volley was fired at the door, but it was only a waste of ammunition, as
the four inches of well-seasoned wood resisted all such attempts.

“Out with the lights, men, and then open the loops. Perhaps we may
return the compliments of our friends outside,” added Marcos.

The shouts of the besiegers in the tap room, together with the clashing
of the bar fixtures, told but too plainly the fate of the _patrona’s_
wines and liquors. Nothing else could be expected, for the _mineros_
were not accustomed to having such a windfall every day, and even those
who usually were so chary of the exhilarating beverage when good, hard
money had to be disgorged in lieu, now emptied glass after glass.

Joaquina cowered in one corner of the room, ringing her hands in
despair, as she pictured her loss, praying to the Virgin that the liquor
might choke the _ladrones_, or pouring out a torrent of vituperation
that only an enraged _Mexicana_ could invent.

“_Madre de Dios_, good _patrona_, rest your tongue for a while,”
exclaimed Marcos, half impatiently, “or the _padre_ will require a
fortune before he can absolve you at next confession. Look, if you are
injured by this night’s work, we will make it up to you either in money
or a _venta_.”

“_Muy bueno_, then I hope the villains will drink the barrels dry, for
then they would be beyond doing you any harm.”

“Ha, that is a good thought! Is there enough for that, _’na_ Joaquina?”

“You will—”

“Capitan, there is a large body of men out here in full view. Shall we
fire?” interrupted a man who was standing at a loop-hole.

He was speedily answered, for scarcely had the words issued from his
lips, than a blaze of light shone in at the loop-holes, and the loud
roar of many guns told that the half-drunken _Melladios_ had fired a
volley at the building. The man who had just spoken gave a convulsive
spring into the air, and fell dead at his young leader’s feet, shot
through the throat. A low, thrilling rattle, a gasp, and he was dead!

“Fire, men, fire!” yelled Sayosa, as he sprung to the loop-hole thus
vacated, and sent his bullet with the rest.

The stars shone brightly enough to indistinctly reveal the forms of
their assailants as they surged to and fro in the open space beyond, and
at the dense mass were the guns discharged with deadly effect. The
reports were followed by a hideous uproar: the groans and shrieks of the
wounded, mingled with the hoarse yells of rage and vengeance of their
comrades; the rushing tramp hither and yon, as they retreated or
advanced, according to their courage or recklessness; the clang of
steel, shot and _escopettes_ against the pavement as the weapons were
reloaded; the flash and dull roar as a piece was discharged at the
building—all made up a wild, weird picture.

Afar off could faintly be heard the roll of a drum and call of bugles,
showing that the town was alarmed, but that afforded neither fear to the
one nor hope to the other party, for well they knew that the military
force available could do nothing toward quelling the riots, and, before
aid could be procured, the matter would be decided in one way or the
other.

Marcos Sayosa had no fear of the ultimate result being against him. He
knew that his comrades of the Rayas mine would soon learn of their
situation, and, until they should arrive to the rescue, he could hold
the building against the _Melladios_. So, by his orders, the men kept up
a steady fusillade from the loop-holes wherever a foe could be seen, and
by dodging as quickly as their shot was delivered, the return fire,
aimed at the flashes, was harmless, although several bullets passed
through the apertures.

Then came a wild, ferocious yell from the besiegers, as if at the
arrival of some powerful auxiliary. The occupants of the _posada_ were
not long left in doubt as to the meaning of this uproar. Indeed, the
truth was suspected before the cries had died away, and those nearest to
the door soon heard the roaring, crackling sound that but one thing
emits—_fire_.

It was but too true. The _Melladios_ had splintered the shelves, outer
door, and bar-room furniture, piled it in the center of the room and
against the partition door, poured spirits over it, and then applied a
candle. Although the side-walls were of sun-dried bricks, or _adobes_,
there was plenty of fuel in the floors, partition, roof and ceiling,
that would burn like tinder, and was a danger not to be scorned.

“Bah! the drunken fools; let them yell. We will foil them yet,” sneered
Sayosa. “Here, half a dozen of you cut a hole through the _adobes_ at
the further end. You can do it easily with your _machetes_ and
_cuchillos_. The rest of you keep up a fire on the demons out yonder.
The light will reveal them plainly now, and it will keep them from
suspecting what we are doing. This bonfire will show our _conpairanos_
where to seek us, and then we will take a dear revenge upon these
rascally dogs who disgrace the name of _mineros_!”

While uttering these directions, the young leader was not idle, but led
the party in their work upon the end wall of the building. Under the
sharp points of their weapons, wielded by strong and willing hands, the
hard clay began to crumble and fall to the floor. But it was thick, and
required time. The fire had already began to creep along the roof of the
apartment, and the massive door showed signs of rapid burning upon its
inner side. The room was oppressively hot and close; perspiration
dampened the clothes of the besieged, and in their eagerness to obtain a
breath of fresh air, through the loop-holes, they exposed themselves to
the bullets of the beleaguers, and two were instantly killed, while
several others received flesh-wounds in the head, more or less
dangerous.

Then a blow, better directed than the rest, pierced the wall, the
wielder’s hand and arm following the knife. They could not suppress a
shout of joy, and worked on with increased energy to enlarge the
aperture. Foot by foot it fell outward, and then, when it was large
enough for their purpose, Marcos ordered his followers to reload all
their firearms, as it was likely they would be needed. Then, selecting
two of the most trustworthy miners, he directed them to hasten at full
speed through the town, and raise assistance by sounding the motto of
the Scarlet Shoulders.

Then the little band pressed through the aperture, and the messengers
darted off into the darkness upon their errand. Before the last of the
Scarlet Shoulders were outside of the burning building, a loud shout
told both them and the main body of their foes that they were
discovered. A wild rush was made toward them, and telling the terrified
_patrona_ to flee for her life, Marcos retreated rapidly from the circle
of light cast by the burning _venta_.

The _Melladios_ came rushing on, outnumbering their rivals three to one,
and evidently thinking that the Scarlet Shoulders would not dare risk a
hand-to-hand combat. Indeed, several of the miners shouted out that the
cowards were running, in a derisive voice. But if this was their
thoughts, they were soon undeceived. As soon as the gloom was entered,
and while the enemy were in the broad light, Marcos Sayosa directed:

“_Comarados_, when I give the word, fire, and then drop on your faces.
The man that stands up will never do so again!”

The little band stood firm with leveled carbines, and the foe
approached. Half crazed with drink, they thought not of caution, but
with demoniac hoots and yells, they crossed the point Sayosa had
selected as the limit. Like a clarion note the young miner’s voice
sounded:

“_Fire, men, fire!_”

As a sheet of lightning the carbines vomited their contents almost in
the face of the enemy, at less than twenty paces. The front ranks went
down like the weeds before a prairie fire, as many, perhaps from
surprise and terror as wounds. Those in the rear discharged a random
volley, but as the Scarlet Shoulders had obeyed their leader’s orders
and dropped to the ground, it was perfectly harmless.

“Now, _compadres_, out with your steel, and teach the cowardly dogs
better manners than to molest men!” yelled Marcos, as he drew his
_machete_ and sprung into the _melee_.

Before the _Melladios_ recovered from the confusion the unexpected
onslaught had thrown them into, their foes were upon them, slashing and
thrusting, fighting with sword in one hand, a knife in the other with
which to deal wounds or ward off blows, as might be. Thus a fearful
scene ensued.

The dense mass of swarthy, powerful men, swaying to and fro, wielding
the deadly weapons they had been familiar with from childhood; yelling,
cursing, cheering and blaspheming like a horde of demons fresh let loose
from pandemonium; the long black hair floating around their fierce,
inflamed faces with every movement; the weapons flashing around them,
clashing together until tiny showers of sparks gritted from the steel,
falling swiftly, to rise again, gleaming a dull red, while the ruby
drops of life-blood trickled from the edge or point; the shrieks and
moans of the wounded wretches as they are trampled ruthlessly under
foot; the falling forms of those who are stricken unto death in their
tracks, or tottering away from the _melee_ to fall in some unoccupied
spot, where they can die undisturbed, save by the terrible din; while
the burning house roars in concert, casting its ruddy light over the
conflict, revealing every phase in all its details, and the crash of the
heavy walls, seem in keeping with the fall of man.

Oh, what pen could portray such a scene? The dreadful interest of the
whole would absorb the particulars.

Foremost among the _Melladios_ was the form of the man who had betrayed
the Scarlet Shoulders—he who had enacted the part of spy to lull their
suspicions—Sylva Cohecho. Sayosa recognized him, and divining the true
part he had played, strove to encounter him to reward his treachery. But
whether by accident or design, in this he was baffled, for sometime, as
was also Lucas Planillas.

The traitor seemed to bear a charmed life, and as his long, powerful
arms wielded a heavy sword, he cut down or beat off all who attacked
him, until at length Marcos found himself face to face with the spy.

“Accursed dog, I have met you at last, and now you will never play the
spy again!” hissed the young miner, as he aimed a heavy, downright blow
at his foe, but which slid harmlessly from the _machete_ of Cohecho.

“Bah! you crow loud for a chicken that has not yet grown his spurs,”
taunted the ruffian, as he returned the compliment. “Señor Estevan
Despierto will not have you for a rival with _’na_ Carlita, after
to-night.”

“I shall live to see the _coyotes_ poisoned by _your_ carcass, at any
rate.”

The tumult was constantly increasing in the city, and was rapidly
nearing the scene of the conflict; but the combatants did not heed that.
The long-smothered rage and rivalry between the partisans had now broken
bounds, and it must be a strong barrier that would be able to stay its
course. Although blood had been spilled upon more than one occasion by
the factions, it was only in solitary instances, settled rather as a
duel between enemies than a partisan affair. But now the revolt had come
to a head, and nothing but the complete defeat of one party could check
the riots, unless, indeed, a military force should arrive sufficiently
strong to _compel_ peace—an event that was far from likely.

At this point of the contest, a crowd of armed men arrived upon the
scene, and, with loud shouts of “Los Rayas forever!” “Down with the
_Melladios_!” they plunged into the _melee_, and the next minute the
enemy broke, and fled in every direction, darting into the gloom that
was rendered more intense by the contrast with the ruddy glow of the
still burning building, closely pursued by the victorious miners.

The rescuing party of Scarlet Shoulders who had arrived so opportunely,
had been closely followed by the police and military force; but these
prudently awaited until the battlefield was comparatively clear, when
they boldly advanced and arrested several of the victors and a few
wounded. But the cry for rescue was quickly set up, and the miners
promptly rallied, with wild yells, and charged the troops. These latter
worthies, deeming valor the better part of discretion, abandoned their
captives and fled for their lives, seeing the folly of attempting a
resistance.

The rioters well knew what penalty awaited them if they should become
known, and collecting their wounded, speedily vanished to place them in
security. But the affair was not yet over, as they well knew. The
defeated _Melladios_ would collect reinforcements, and another effort
would be made to retrieve their lost honor.




                               CHAPTER V.
                              THE RESCUE.


The rioting and confusion did not entirely cease, although, owing to the
retreat of the _Melladios_, it was but in an idle and desultory way,
either among themselves or the police of the town. These last worthies,
after one or two _rencontres_, left the city to the tender mercies of
the victors, and sought safety in flight. But as many of the Rayas
miners had families or friends living in the place, the principal source
of danger was to be dreaded from the _Melladios_ attempting to storm the
city.

So the night wore on; fresh recruits coming in from time to time to join
the Scarlet Shoulders under Marcos Sayosa, until he had a body of hardy,
resolute men strong enough to make him have little doubt as to his being
able to hold his own against whatever force might be brought against
him. So, instead of fortifying any of the buildings, he contented
himself with posting sentinels around the town, with attendants to carry
the news in case any enemy should appear.

The few hours that intervened before daylight he spent in searching for
Despierto, but without success. Whether he was dead, a prisoner, or had
fled, he could only conjecture, but for the time his vengeance must be
deferred.

About the middle of the forenoon a strong body of the _Melladios_
appeared in view at some distance from the city, and Marcos Sayosa, at
the head of the majority of his men, sallied out to give them battle. As
they came within gunshot, a volley was exchanged, but without material
effect, and the _Melladios_ retreated before the impetuous charge of the
Scarlet Shoulders, who pressed forward at speed with wild hurrahs of
victory.

But then Sayosa hurriedly ordered them to halt, turning his face
anxiously toward the town. They could hear the rapid reports of firearms
and faint shouting, while the thin, sulphurous smoke could be seen
rising above the housetops.

Then they comprehended the trap they had fallen into: that the
_Melladios_ had signally outwitted them. They knew then the reason why
the enemy had so suddenly and strangely retreated without joining, hand
to hand. It was their object to draw the main force, if not all of the
Scarlet Shoulders, from the advantageous position they held, under cover
of the houses, and keep them employed while another body took possession
of the city.

The plot was well laid, and a few more minutes would have insured its
success, if, indeed, it had not been already accomplished. Sayosa knew
that his only hope was to gain the city before his comrades were
overpowered, or, placed between two fires, he would stand a fair chance
of being cut to pieces.

“Back, _comarados_, back to the city! Never mind those _ladrones_;
_anda—anda_!” he shouted, and darted forward at the top of his speed,
closely followed by his men, all fully sensible that nothing but
celerity of action and desperate fighting could repair the folly they
had been led into.

Then the tables were turned. The pursued became the pursuers—the chasers
chased. Each man strained every nerve, and ran as he had never ran
before. The one to reach the city in time to assist their beleaguered
comrades, the other to overtake and force the Scarlet Shoulders into a
struggle that would detain them until the other division of the
_Melladios_ should have accomplished their mission.

Two men were seen to run from the town, but when they saw the miners
returning, sped back to announce the news to those who had dispatched
them for assistance.

The pursuers and pursued were scattered over the plains—the swiftest of
the former close upon the heels of the rearmost of the latter.
Fortunately all firearms had been discharged, or a serious loss would
have been inflicted. As it was, more than one of the Scarlet Shoulders
were cut down before the city was reached.

As the fugitives swept down an angle in the street, Marcos Sayosa
halted, and ordered his men to face the foe. This was promptly done, and
the bright swords and scarcely less terrible knives flashed in the
sunlight. Others hastily began reloading their _escopettes_.

The enemy came sweeping on, uttering their wild yells and shouts of
exultation. The rearmost of the men from whose left shoulders streamed
the bright knot of ribbon, came up and fell promptly into the ranks.

Then the _Melladios_ swept around the corner, and so great was their
impetus that many ran headlong into the close ranks of their foes, and
then the cold steel began its work. Almost without resistance a score of
the leaders were cut down, and then, while the remainder faltered at the
sudden and unexpected resistance, the loud, clear tones of Sayosa rung
out the order to charge!

And right bravely was his call responded to. Sounding their war-cry:
“Rayas forever—down with the _Melladios_!” the Scarlet Shoulders rushed
into the confused mass of men, and for a few brief minutes the blood
flowed like water.

The enemy quickly rallied and fought desperately, but the momentary
surprise had been fatal to their chance of successful resistance.
Outnumbered and without order, they sustained the fearful onset for a
time, and then, pressed back, slowly giving way, foot by foot, at first,
and then more rapidly, until at length they turned on their heels and
fled in despair, closely pursued by the victorious Scarlet Shoulders.
But Marcos Sayosa sounded the recall, that was obeyed, and just in time.

Their comrades who had been left in the town now appeared in view, being
driven back by their assailants. Sullenly and with desperate courage
they fought the overpowering force of _Melladios_, stubbornly contending
the ground inch by inch, borne back, not by superior bravery, but by
mere force of numbers. But one man turned to flee in affright, and he
was promptly cut down by one of his comrades.

Then sounding their war-cry, the victorious division of the Scarlet
Shoulders pressed forward to the rescue, and the tug of war commenced.
The _Melladios_, flushed with success, would not retreat, although now
outnumbered, and the street was filled with the clash of steel and the
horrible din of a death struggle. But the scale was turned by the miners
of Rayas, the band who had reloaded their firearms, and at close
quarters poured in a withering volley, some of the victims being
scorched by the burning powder.

This started the retreat, and then began a bloody running fight from one
end of the city to the other. Three several times did the fugitives
rally and strive nobly to retrieve their lost fortunes, but in vain.
They were overmatched, and finally broke in every direction, each man
fleeing as choice impelled him, only intent upon escaping the avengers
who stood in their footpaths.

The pursuit was continued by the main body for several miles, and when
they abandoned it a few still persisted. Marcos Sayosa led his
triumphant band back to the town, and retiring to the house he had
selected as his quarters for the present, with his officers, they
deliberated as to what should be their future course. They well knew
that should their identity become known, and they were captured by the
military, there could be but one ending. And some hours they argued
_pro_ and _con_, without coming to any definite conclusion. They knew
that in a short time the fugitive military would return with
reinforcements, against which they would stand but a faint chance of
making a successful resistance, even were they mad enough to attempt it.

The city was gloomy enough. The main street was still scattered with the
dead and wounded miners, lying as they fell. The houses were all closed
and barred, the inhabitants most likely trembling lest their doors
should be forced and their wealth, perhaps even life, be taken. Several
_posadas_ had been forced open, and the Scarlet Shoulders were fast
becoming uproarious over the confiscated wines and liquors.

The young captain was standing with Lucas Planillas and several others
upon the _azotea_, still in consultation, when Sayosa suddenly paused,
and, shading his eyes with his hand, peered keenly toward the
south-west. The form of a single horseman was riding at a break-neck
speed toward the city, while on the rising ground far beyond him could
faintly be distinguished the light cloud either produced by a fire or
the discharging of guns.

“_Voto a Dios, ’nor_ Lucas, but I believe there is mischief going on
yonder. Surely a fight is going on; perhaps some of our _comarados_ are
in trouble. Go you and see what the _cavallero_ is spurring so fast for,
and let us know as soon as possible;” and then, as Planillas departed
upon his errand, Marcos turned to his companions, and added:

“_Cavalleros_, we may be needed yonder. See how many horses you can find
before the lieutenant returns, and one of you pass the word for the men
to be in readiness to march, if needs be.”

As he turned toward the point where the horseman had been seen, he found
that Planillas had just met him, and, after a few moments, during which,
apparently, a few explanations were given, the man dismounted, and Don
Lucas, vaulting into the saddle, galloped on toward the headquarters.
Descending the steps, Sayosa awaited his approach, and, when within
call, exclaimed:

“Well, _amigo_, what is it?”

“We are needed out yonder. There is an escort guarding some ladies that
have been attacked by a band of _Melladios_, who outnumber them two to
one. They have sent to ask assistance. Will you go?”

“_Cascaras_, yes! Go you and start what men you can find on foot. We
will follow as soon as horses can be got. In a few moments,” hastily
returned Marcos.

In two minutes the majority of the Scarlet Shoulders were _en route_ on
the double-quick toward the scene of the struggle, and three more saw
about a score of horsemen, including the leaders, spur out from the
city, well mounted upon confiscated horses that quickly carried them
past the footmen, who were ordered to push on at top speed for the
rescue.

The reason for the miners being all upon foot is not fully known, when
perhaps there was not a man in the band but what owned one or more
horses. But partly from policy, and partly from being ignorant of the
period of the intended attack by the _Melladios_, such was the case.

In ten minutes the horsemen had reached the scene of the surprise, and
were none too soon, for the _peons_ were fast falling before the more
numerous army of the assailants, and, although fighting desperately,
were being forced back. At their head fought a tall, handsome cavalier,
bare-headed and blood-stained, but whose saber drank blood at every
stroke, while the rearing and plunging of his snorting horse helped to
keep him free from the mass of miners that swarmed around him.

With a loud cheer of encouragement, the little band of horsemen plunged
into the _melee_, and joined the leader, who welcomed them with a cry of
pleasure. Still they were greatly outnumbered, and, although encouraged
by the accession, the _peons_ fought with renewed energy, it was all
they could do to hold their own against the raging mass. Time and time
again did the horsemen charge among the enemy, beating them back with
the desperate onset, yet each time the miners closed around them, and
they had to cut their way out again, gradually losing some of their
number, either by death or by being unhorsed.

The work was all done with the cold steel. There was no time to reload
their firearms, and perhaps it was well that such was the case. The
_peons_ were ranged around a sort of coach, or close carriage, in which
were the ladies, and obstinately retained their position, although so
closely pressed that it seemed a miracle they were not annihilated. The
bodies of their horses, and the ones which had drawn the carriage, were
lying where they had been shot at the first onset.

Then with wild yells the foremost of the Scarlet Shoulders came up and
poured a withering volley of musket balls into the close ranks of the
_Melladios_. In the excitement their approach had not been noticed, or
was unheeded. In a moment the struggle was changed, and with yells of
dismay, the miners broke in confusion and fled from the spot.

“_Andela, comarados, andela!_” shouted Marcos Sayosa. “Give the cursed
_ladrones_ no quarter; give them a lesson they will not forget soon!”

The Scarlet Shoulders pressed hotly after the fleeing _Melladios_,
fulfilling to the letter the order given them. Marcos Sayosa alone
remained behind. The cavalier already mentioned was at the side of the
carriage, and opening the door, eagerly exclaimed:

“Mother—Luisa, are you safe and unhurt?”

“Yes, yes, Felipe; but you? My God, you are killed!”

“No, it is only a scratch—nothing; a little cut from a _machete_, that
is all. Thank the Virgin you are safe! I thought it was all over with
us, when this _cavallero_ came up,” and he turned to where the young
miner sat upon his horse, wrapping his scarf around a severe gash in his
left arm.

“Pardon me, senor, if I neglected you for a moment. But this is my
mother and sister, and they might have been injured.”

“You were perfectly right, _’nor cavallero_, and no apologies are
needed. But if you will be so kind as to knot this troublesome scarf, I
will remain your debtor,” returned Marcos.

“No, brother; it was for us that he received it, let _me_ fasten it,”
interrupted a musical voice from the carriage, and as the speaker looked
forth, Sayosa gave a start of mingled admiration and wonder that called
up a deeper blush to the cheek of Luisa Canelo, that made her still more
charming.

“A thousand pardons, _senorita_, but I am a rough, unpolished miner, and
the sight of such loveliness confused me. I really thought that an
angel—there, see, I have sinned again!” he added, with a slight laugh of
confusion, as he saw the effect of his words.

“It is a sin then that my sister has often provoked,” said Felipe,
feeling slightly annoyed. “But pardon, again. This is my mother and
sister. I am Felipe Canelo.”

“And I am called Marcos Sayosa,” added the young partisan, as the other
paused, “a poor miner at your service,” bowing first to the man and then
the ladies, who politely acknowledged the salute.

“But see, your arm still bleeds. Allow me to bind it up,” said Luisa,
and as the miner rode up to the carriage, her fairy fingers deftly
fastened the bandage, while her face flushed hotly beneath the admiring
but respectful gaze of Sayosa.

On the opposite side Felipe was undergoing the same process at the hands
of his mother. The latter seemed puzzled at some thought, and glanced
curiously at the young miner, who never looked handsomer than at that
moment, although his attire was somewhat stained and disordered by the
adventures he had so recently passed through. The tumults within his
breast had not yet died away, but the fierce ardor of battle that glowed
in every feature and flashed in his eye, was tempered by the sight of
the beautiful maiden who was so tenderly ministering to his wound.

He had never before met with so much beauty and grace centered in one
woman, and there was a strange sensation about his heart that should
have warned him such company would be far more dangerous to his peace of
mind than the weapons that had so lately been playing around him were to
his body. But not then did he think of this. He would have been either
more or less than man, had he done so.

As Luisa put the last touch upon the bandage, Canelo came around the
coach, and addressed the miner:

“Senor Don Sayosa, can you tell me if I can procure horses in the city?
Ours are all dead or fled but my own bay, and we must get to shelter
soon.”

“The city, senor, is no place for ladies now, but I think I can help
you. Last night the miners from Mellado attacked us of Los Rayas, and
the city officers have all fled the town. I command the men you saw, and
they will be like wild beasts from blood and drink,” he added, as Felipe
was about to interrupt him. “But if you desire it, I will select a band
on whom I can depend, and guard you until you are beyond all danger. As
we disband to-day, I fear I could do but little with the mass to-night.”

“Well, then, we will accept the offer as freely as ’tis made, for you do
not paint a very pleasant or reassuring picture. But the horses?”

“I will send an order to my men who remained at the city, if you can
dispatch a couple of _peons_ with it. They will send horses, although I
fear your followers will have to travel on foot.”

“They can, until we reach some place where I can purchase mounts.”

In the course of half an hour the two _peons_ returned from the city,
each astride of a stout, serviceable horse, and by stripping the dead
ones of their harness, the carriage was soon in readiness for the road.
Some little time was consumed in waiting for the return of the desired
Scarlet Shoulders, but at length two score were selected upon whom
Sayosa knew he could depend. After a consultation with Lucas Planillas,
his lieutenant, the young miner deputed the command to him, both to
disband and arrange the necessary signals by which they could be
recalled, if necessary; the coach started and rolled rapidly along the
sandy road, surrounded by the escort.

Owing to the sand cast by the wheels the windows were closed, and
although Felipe and Marcos rode close to the sides, all conversation was
checked except between themselves; although more than once the young
miner caught the great black eyes of Luisa glancing toward him, and then
it would be difficult indeed to tell which one was the most confused.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                                CARLITA.


The sun set and twilight ensued, but for a brief space. The moon was
near its full, and arose nearly as soon as its more brilliant brother
had disappeared, and in that clear atmosphere its light rendered objects
with nearly the distinctness of noon-day.

In perhaps an hour after sunset the party halted for supper, there
fortunately being enough stowed behind the coach in a hamper for a
tolerable meal. Then for the first time Marcos Sayosa heard the cause of
the journey and residence of the party he had been so fortunate in
rescuing.

They had been on a visit to some friends at the city of Mexico for a
couple of weeks, and had got thus far upon their return home, intending
to pause for the night at Guanajuato, when they were attacked by the
_Melladios_, who had ambushed themselves in a shallow ditch, being part
of the band repulsed by Marcos on the edge of the town, as already
detailed.

Marcos seemed wonderfully attracted by Dona Luisa, while she, in return,
appeared to feel the same influence, although much less plainly shown.
Still, it did not escape the notice of her mother and Felipe. The latter
especially seemed ill at ease, and hovered close to his sister, acting
more like a lover than the relation he held toward her. But he heard
nothing at which he could take offense; every word spoken by Marcos was
respectful, almost reverential; but his tones evinced his sincerity,
telling that if not in love, he was not very far from that most
delightful state.

After an hour’s rest the company again started, intending to travel the
greater part of the night. The wind had died away, and as the night was
warm and pleasant, the carriage windows were let down, and a desultory
conversation was kept up by the four persons. During it Sayosa received
a cordial invitation to pay the Canelos’ _hacienda_ a visit, so warmly
pressed that when Luisa added her soft voice, he accepted it, though not
without some inward misgivings as to the wiseness of throwing himself in
the way of temptation, when presented in such a bewitching form as Luisa
Canelo. He knew too well that it would be presumptuous in him to think
of her for his bride, and would not that be the result?

Toward morning they again halted, and at daybreak Sayosa and his
followers took their leave, as now there could be no further danger, and
that day would see them safe at the _hacienda_. The men were not allowed
to depart without a liberal reward from Felipe, and probably not one
regretted the duty that had been forced upon them.

The party separated, Marcos riding off by himself on a course that would
carry him considerably to the left of Guanajuato. He rode slowly along,
little heeding what course he took, with his mind in utter confusion.
The sentences that he muttered from time to time told the subjects of
his thoughts. They were of Luisa Canelo and _love_. He pshawed and
pished at the idea of being in love with her, but this very fact showed
that there was some foundation for the surmise.

“Bah! what a fool I am getting to be,” he exclaimed, impatiently,
“thinking of her in this way! As if she would look at me in my station,
except as one who had done her a slight service! I half expected they
would offer me gold, to pay me for my trouble. But, they did not;
perhaps they understood me too well. And then—am I not pledged? Yes, and
to one who can compare favorably with even the proud Senorita Canelo—my
Carlita! I love her; surely I do, and yet—bah, I am a fool, and worse!”
he muttered, as tightening the reins, he applied his spurs, and galloped
swiftly over the prairie.

With but a short pause at noon to allow his horse necessary rest, he
rode rapidly until late in the afternoon, passing Guanajuato, and
finally reached a small stream that ran through a group of trees.
Dismounting, he led the animal along a narrow path, with the relieved
air of a man who was at his journey’s end. Suddenly he paused.

A shrill, piercing shriek rung out upon the still air, closely followed
by another; then came the hoarse tones of a man.

Relinquishing the bridle and drawing a pistol, Marcos sprung forward
toward the point from whence the alarm sounded. He knew full well the
owner of the first voice, and a cold, chilling hand seemed grasping his
heart, as he thought of her danger—she to whom he had given his first
love and pledged his hand—Carlita.

Running through the undergrowth, regardless of the thorns that lacerated
his flesh, he plunged into a little glade. Two forms met his gaze—a man
and a woman, or rather a young girl. She was struggling wildly in his
grasp, with her face toward the point where approached the young miner,
and as she caught sight of him, cried out imploringly:

“Save me, Marcos; save me for the love of our Virgin!”

Sayosa dared not fire, for fear of hitting the maiden, and leaped
forward with an angry howl of rage. But the maiden’s call had alarmed
the man, and as he saw Marcos, he dropped the girl, and with one leap
was hidden in the undergrowth, closed followed by a bullet from the
young miner’s pistol.

For a moment Marcos hesitated, but then the sight of the pale,
motionless Carlita, who lay where she had fallen, decided him, and
dropping to his knees beside her, he pressed his hand to her heart. With
a fervent shout of joy he felt it flutter, and knew that she had only
fainted. Quickly filling his _sombrero_ with the clear, sparkling water,
he plentifully sprinkled her face with it, and in a few moments she
opened her eyes, to his great joy.

“Where is he—that fearful man? Oh, Marcos, is it you? I am so glad!”
murmured Carlita, as she closed her eyes again, and nestled still to his
breast.

“Do not think of it, _mi alma_,” returned Marcos, pressing a kiss upon
her damp brow. “He is gone and will trouble you no more. But that I
could not leave you then, he would be food for the _coyotes_ and
_zopilates_ before now.”

“Ah, no, Marcos, he is a terrible man. Promise me you will not seek him;
he would kill you!” shuddered Carlita.

“Do you know him, darling? Tell me how it happened.”

“But you will not fight him? Remember, you are all I have to love now
upon earth, excepting poor father.”

“Well, never mind now,” said Marcos, “but tell me how he came to molest
you.”

“It is not the first time he has met me, but never before did he venture
to touch me, although he said horrible, dreadful things,” murmured the
girl, hiding her face and sobbing.

“But his name?” repeated Sayosa, a little sternly.

“I do not know it, but I saw him first at the fandango last month. You
remember? He came up and spoke to you.”

“Ha, I suspected it!” exclaimed the young miner. “Was there no mark by
which you would know him; on his face, I mean?”

“Yes; a small, dark-blue spot just over his eye—the left, I think.”

“Go on; tell me all. It is as I thought; and I spared his life, the
cursed hound!” gritted Sayosa.

“He met me first about two weeks after that, and spoke in a way that
frightened me; as if he—loved me—”

“And you never told me?” demanded the miner, a little sternly.

“Pardon me, Marcos; I was afraid. You know how brave you are, and I
thought if you knew, you might get hurt,” pleaded Carlita. Then, as he
did not speak, she continued more rapidly: “Once afterward I saw him,
and he spoke the same, but I left him without an answer. Then to-day I
was walking along the _arroyo_, wondering why you did not come, when he
suddenly stepped before me, and as I turned to run, he frightened me so,
he caught hold of my arm and held me fast. Then he said something worse
than all, that I thought would kill me, and as I screamed he caught me
in his arms and tried to drag me away, when you came.”

“I understand; but, Carlita, darling, you did very wrong in not telling
me when he first insulted you, and then this would not have happened. He
is a dissolute, unprincipled villain, and I shudder at what might have
been your fate if I had not arrived as I did,” chided Sayosa. “But come,
let us go to the house. Is _tio Tomas_ at home?”

“No. He went away just before noon, but he should be back by this time,”
and then they crossed the _arroyo_ on a foot-bridge, of a tree that had
been felled over to span the little stream, and approached the house, or
rather _jacale_, for it was no better.

Its walls were composed of the split trunks of the arborescent yucca,
set stockade fashion in the ground, while its roof was a thatch
furnished by the long, bayonet-shaped leaves of the same gigantic lily.
The interstices between the uprights, instead of being “chinked” with
clay, as is common among the lower class of peasants, was wattled with a
species of heavy grass or reed.

The form of a man, old and enfeebled from age and sickness, sat upon a
rude stool just within the doorway, smoking a pipe, slowly ejecting the
fragrant vapor through his thin nostrils, his head leaning against the
side of the door, with closed eyes and a faint smile of intense
enjoyment playing around his mouth that told plainly he was a lover of
the narcotic weed.

If looks were a criterion, he was already past the age allotted to man.
His face was one mass of wrinkles; the hair was white as snow, and made
but a thin, narrow fringe around his crown, like the shaven poll of a
monk. He had been very tall, but now his form was like a bent bow, the
chin resting upon his chest, giving him the appearance of being
humpbacked. Such was Tomas Ventura, better known as _tio_, or uncle
Tomas.

The wolf-like dog that lay at his feet leaped up and ran to welcome the
young couple, arousing the old man, who, when he saw what was the cause,
signified his pleasure by rubbing his bony hands together and calling
out in a shrill, cracked voice:

“Ah, Marcos, my son, you are as welcome as the first drop of rain. But
where have you been so long? and see, the boy is hurt! Look at the
blood. Is it bad, Marcos, is it bad?”

“A few scratches, _tio_ Tomas, nothing more,” was the hasty reply, for
he noted the sudden start of alarm given by Carlita, who had been so
excited by the adventure she had met with, that she did not notice he
had been wounded before.

“But how was it, child, how did it happen? In a duel?” persisted
Ventura, with the curiosity of old age.

“No,” hesitated Marcos, for it was partially from that cause, as the
reader knows, but he did not wish Carlita to learn of that just at
present; “it was with the _Melladios_. They attacked us of the Scarlet
Shoulders night before last.”

“Ah, the accursed dogs! But you beat them; say that you beat the
cowardly _ladrones_!” eagerly cried the old man.

“Ay, that we did!” laughed Sayosa, “and so thoroughly that they will
rest satisfied for a year to come. But, dear Carlita, you must change
your clothes. It is getting chilly,” he added, as they entered the
house.

“_Santissima Virgin_, she is all wet! Did you fall into the _arroyo,
nina_?” anxiously queried Ventura, for the first time noting the
condition of his daughter.

“No, not that, uncle, but worse,” returned Marcos. “Come out of doors
and I will tell you all.”

In a few words he narrated the insult given by Estevan Despierto, the
duel, and then his dastardly conduct to Carlita, with the assault from
which she had just been delivered; for, from the peculiarity mentioned
by Carlita, he had recognized Despierto as the villain. The blue spot,
left by a pistol-shot that had been discharged so close to his face that
the burnt powder had penetrated the skin, was an indelible brand.

“_Madre de Soledad!_ and I so near!” murmured the father. “So near, and
not know of my child’s danger! But he did not—you saved her from all
harm?”

“Excepting a bad affright.”

“Thank God it was you. But listen. My Carlita is beautiful and good—even
a father may say that—and she loves you, better far than life itself.
And you—can you, do you love her?” anxiously asked Ventura.

“Yes; I do, I _will_ love her, best of all!” exclaimed Marcos, but there
was a remonstrance at his heart; the bright, beautiful face of Luisa
Canelo was there, and seemed to reproach him for the words.

“I hoped so—I _knew_ so; and I am glad. I am an old man, Marcos, and, as
you know, very poor. But you saved my daughter; she who looks at me with
her mother’s eyes, and I shall not forget it. Listen. I can not live
much longer; I feel that I must soon die, although it is sorrow and
care—remorse, not age, that has made me what I am. I am not much over
fifty years of age, but I look nearer a hundred. You wonder, but it is
true. And when I die—after I am dead, you will be rich. Yes, rich as a
prince—a prince, Marcos!”

“Never mind that now, uncle; we will talk it over some other time. Let
us return to the _jacale_,” soothingly replied Sayosa, as he took the
old man’s arm, thinking that the tale of Carlita’s peril had shocked his
brain; for the neighbors all called him “crazy Ventura,” and the youth
partially shared their belief that the old man was of unsound mind.

“No, no, Marcos, my son, you are wrong,” said Ventura. “I am not
wandering; my brain is not crazed. Although the blessed Virgin knows
that I have endured enough to make me so. I am speaking the truth when I
say that if you marry Carlita, after I am gone, you will be wealthy;
with gold that you could not count in a lifetime, and lands where you
may gallop all day long, in a straight line, without touching an inch of
ground that does not call you master.”

“Well, let us go to the house, for I am fearfully hungry. I have not
eaten a mouthful of food since last night,” lightly returned Sayosa.

“_Por Dios_, is it so? Then come, hasten; my poor boy, you must be
starving,” cried Ventura, and the two men were soon eating a hearty
meal, prepared by the little brown hands of Carlita.

She was a tiny, fairy-like creature, but with an admirably modeled form,
of exquisite grace and beauty. She had the large, lustrous black eyes
that are seen only to perfection in Mexico, but more especially in the
valley of Jalapa. Her hair was worn rather short, curling in masses
around her small head and graceful neck, glossy as the plumage of a
raven, and with the same blue-black sheen. Her arms, hand,
tiny-slippered foot and trim ankle were matchless even among the ones to
whom such charms are hereditary. And although so young in years, but
little past her _buen quince_ (beautiful fifteen), she was a
fully-developed woman. Those years passed under the sun of a Southern
sky are what two or three and twenty are in our temperate climate.

Her father had appeared at their present situation when she was yet an
infant, and although, from the great contrast between the two, it was
hinted they were not of such close relationship, yet he was her father.

With them had come a boy, Marcos Sayosa, who had been taught to call the
one uncle and the other cousin. But when he grew older and began to ask
about his parents, Tomas Ventura told him that he was not a nephew, or,
indeed, any relation whatever. That a man and woman had come to his
house, asking shelter, where he had been born. The father was badly
wounded in the conflict with banditti in which they had lost their all,
excepting the clothes they wore, and had managed to escape and wander to
his hut. The man died of his wounds, and after Marcos’ birth his mother
sunk rapidly from grief for her husband, and on the third day she also
died. They were buried side by side, and Ventura determined to adopt the
child, calling it after its father’s name, and had done so, rearing him
as though he was of his own flesh and blood, although it was a constant
struggle with him to obtain food for the mouths of those dependent upon
him.

This was the story that Marcos had heard. Who or what his parents were
he could not learn. They had been robbed of every thing—not even a scrap
of paper was to be found—and in their woful condition Ventura had not
ventured to question them; and no clue, excepting the one name, was
dropped from their lips.

With this Sayosa was forced to be content, and as his years increased,
he learned to love the sweet Carlita, and she him. They were pledged to
each other, and until the hour in which he met Luisa Canelo, he had
thoughts for none other. But now he was bewildered, and knew not what to
do. Although he declared to himself that he loved Carlita, and her only,
his thoughts would wander to Luisa, and her image was far oftener
present to his mind than he would have cared to admit.




                              CHAPTER VII.
                           FELIPE’S VISITOR.


“Well, Pepe, what is it?” a little impatiently asked Felipe Canelo, as a
_vaquero_ paused at the entrance of the little arbor within which he was
seated with Luisa.

“_Un papelaio, mi amo_,” respectfully answered Pepe, as he presented a
folded note to the young man, and then resumed his former position as it
was being perused.

Luisa’s eyes were fixed upon her brother’s face, and the change in it
was so sudden and strange, that she could not suppress an exclamation of
alarm. His face blanched to an ashen white, and his form shook as though
he had an ague-fit, while there was a wild, half-crazed glare in his
eyes, that frightened her, she scarce knew why. But the sound of her
voice recalled Felipe to his senses, and with an effort he regained his
composure sufficiently to speak coherently.

“It is nothing, Luisa, darling. It is from an old friend that I thought
was dead, and the unexpected sight of his name shocked me; that is all,”
he muttered, as stooping, he pressed a kiss upon her cheek. “But, Pepe,
where is the gentleman who gave you this; I must see him,” he added, as
he saw that the _vaquero_ still stood at the door.

“He awaits you at the first clump of _magueys_ on the _arroyo maduro_,
_senor_, just below the ford. I met him there and he asked me to give
you _el papelaio_. But pardon, master, shall I not go with you? He is a
wild, rough-looking person, more like a _salteador_ than an honest man,”
urged the _vaquero_.

“No, Pepe; he means no mischief, and even if he did, it is not one man
who would get the better of me,” laughed Felipe, but it was in a
constrained manner. “Go now, and saddle Peralta, and fasten him at the
gate. I will be there in five minutes. Come, Luisa, let us return to the
house,” he added, taking her arm and leaving the arbor.

“Felipe—brother, do not go to that man. I know that something dreadful
will happen if you do,” pleaded Luisa.

“But I _must_ go, or he would come here, and—”

“But that would be better; then where there were so many around, he
would not harm you,” interrupted the maiden, eagerly.

“Not for the world would—I mean it would not be pleasant, sister; at
least, just at present,” stammered Felipe. “And there is no danger.
Besides, I shall go armed. So say no more about it, and when I come back
we will laugh heartily over your foolish fancies,” he added, lightly.

Luisa said no more, for she saw that he was determined to go, and in a
few moments he was in the saddle, well armed, and galloping swiftly
toward the point designated. As he rode up, he uttered the shrill,
thrilling whistle of the red-tailed hawk, and in a few moments the
signal was answered from the grove of _moquet_, and a horseman rode from
out among the underbrush that surrounded the tall plants.

He was a tall, stalwart man, with features regular enough, but upon them
was the brand of crime and fearful passion. Pepe, the _vaquero_, had
spoken truly when he described the stranger as a “wild, rough-looking
man.” He was such a man as one would instinctively shun if in a lone
place, and feel more at ease when he was out of sight.

The two men, so dissimilar in appearance, were soon deeply engaged in
consultation, and did not notice that there was an intruder near them,
and one, too, that was listening eagerly to their every word, his
countenance betraying the intense interest it occasioned him. He was
concealed behind a dense stunted bush, or rather _in_ a little clump,
not more than a score of feet distant, with his eye at one opening and
ear at another, carefully parting the leaves with his hands, so as to
hear everything, while the slightly-fluttering leaves fully screened his
face from view.

That it was a secret topic they were discussing was plainly evidenced by
the continual glances that were cast around them, as if to guard against
espial or interruption, but they were directed beyond where the spy was
crouched. Perhaps an hour afterward the two men separated, Felipe riding
homeward slowly, the stranger galloping rapidly off toward Guanajuato.

When they moved out of sight the spy arose, and looking toward the point
where the latter had disappeared, clenched his fist and shook it
vindictively, hissing between his closed teeth as he did so.

“Beware, Senor Don Lopez Romulo. I know you now, and your precious
secret! And I will foil you, so sure as the sun shines; yes, and test my
_cuchillo_ on your ribs before many days. _Santissima Virgin!_ can it be
true?” he added, in a changed voice, as he sat down again, and resting
his head upon his hand, sunk into a deep fit of musing that lasted until
the sun had set.

“Yes, that will do, I think. At least I will try. But Don Felipe?
_Sangre de Christo!_ it must be so; else they would not have been so
cautious. Poor Senora Canelo!” he muttered, as he strode rapidly toward
the _hacienda_, taking a roundabout course, so as to enter it upon the
opposite side from that whence Felipe had ridden.

It was at an early hour of the night of the succeeding day to that on
which Felipe had met his strange visitor, that this same man, or Lopez
Romulo as the spy had termed him, entered a low, fifth-rate _cabaret_
near the suburbs of Guanajuato. His soft, felt hat was slouched over his
eyes, and the muffling folds of his coarse woolen _bayeta_ shrouded the
lower portion of his face, only leaving a narrow aperture, from which
gleamed a large black eye. After a quick glance around the room, he
dropped his cloak, and spoke to the _patrone_.

“Senor Don Sanchez, if a _cavallero_ asks for me by the name you know,
be so kind as to direct him to my table. Stop. Have you any acquaintance
with Don Sylva Cohecho?”

“Carajo! yes; more than I could wish. He owes me for two nights’
drinking, and what a head he has got, to be sure! He said you would see
me paid.”

“Very good. Include it with my bill. Send a bottle of wine and some
cigarettes—not like the bundle you gave me the other day, or I will ram
them down my pistol and use your head for a target.”

“I comprehend your excellency,” grinned the _patrone_, significantly.
“You were a stranger then, and I did not expect to see you again. It was
all in the way of business, you see. But no offense, I trust?”

“None. You rob the traveler in one way, I in another; ha, ha!” laughed
Romulo, as he passed to the further end of the vacant room, where he
seated himself at a small table.

The host, when he brought the ordered articles, removed the two nearest
stands to a distance, so that any thing said in a moderate tone by Lopez
or his expected friend could not be overheard. After the elapse of an
hour, perhaps, half of the tables were occupied, and then Sylva Cohecho,
the repulsive-looking scoundrel who had betrayed Marcos Sayosa and his
comrades of the Scarlet Shoulders to the _Melladios_, entered, and was
directed to where Romulo was sitting. He was greeted with a careless,
half-contemptuous nod by the latter, who did not deign to move the
cigarette from between his lips.

“You wished to see me, _’nor capitan_?”

“On business, yes; for pleasure, no,” returned Lopez, not noting the
flash of anger that shot from beneath the shaggy, pent-house eyebrows of
his comrade. “I have work for you to do, of that kind which pleases you
the most. There is a certain man that I wish put out of the way; a blow
of the _cuchillo_ will do. And the sooner it is done the greater will be
your pay. He has deeply insulted me, and as it was at a place and time
that I could not resent it then, I ask you. But that matters not. When
you have done this, we will be ready to begin the business that brought
us here.”

“And the person’s name is—?”

“One Marcos Sayosa, a miner of Los Rayas, and, I have heard, the chief
of those who call themselves Scarlet Shoulders,” returned the captain.

“Good, and at the same time I can discharge the little sum he owes me!”
exclaimed Cohecho, clutching his long knife vindictively.

“Ah, you know him, then?”

For reply Don Sylva narrated the adventures of the night on which he had
played the spy.

“Your headstrong folly will ruin both yourself and my plans, yet; not
that the first would matter much, because the sooner the _zopilates_
feed upon your hideous carcass the better; but until this affair is
over, remember your life belongs to _me_, and you must keep as much in
the dark as possible. Supposing some of those miners should meet you
again—for they will not soon forget such a marvel of grace and beauty as
you are—their first greeting would be either a stab or a pistol bullet,”
angrily muttered Lopez, as he refilled his glass.

“_Carrai!_ but that’s a two-handed game,” returned Cohecho. “And they
have all returned to work at the mines, so there is no danger of that.
But about this Sayosa?”

“You will receive five hundred _pesos_, if you bring me satisfactory
proof that he is dead; but beware how you act. If you try to deceive me,
I wear a knife that has stilled the breath of better men than you, and
perhaps you know my hand never misses its aim,” answered Romulo,
significantly.

“_Voto al demonios,’nor capitan_, where is the need of threats? Have I
ever played you false?”

“Not to my knowledge. If you had, you would not be sitting here now.”

“He is your enemy, and mine also. I shall claim the money within the
week, perhaps before another night. But the other—”

“Is an altogether different affair. You will be paid for it, as I told
you, just as soon as the work is done.”

“_Carambo_, it is beautiful!” murmured the ruffian, in a joyful tone.
“After this I shall set up a _monte_ bank, and roll in gold—the sweet,
darling gold!”

“Yes; after, but not yet. Do not let your _chiripe_ turn your brain or
steal away the little sense you have got,” sneered Don Lopez, as he
lighted another cigarette.

“Pardon, _’nor capitan_, I was dreaming. But did you see this Don Felipe
Canelo?” returned Cohecho.

“_Mil diablos, zarayote_, why do you speak that name?” exclaimed Lopez,
ferociously. “What do you know about him?”

“Nothing—nothing at all,” drawing a little back from the table, as if in
expectation of an attack. “I only thought—”

“_Carrai!_” hissed Romulo. “You have no right to think of any thing or
in any way but as I bid you. And the better you obey me in this, the
longer will be your life. _Por to dos santos_” (by all the saints), “if
I hear that name from your thick lips, or hear your tongue even hint at
it, I will tear it out by the roots and feed it to the _coyotes_.”

“I hear you, _’nor_ Romulo, and will heed your _hint_.”

“See that you do. I never warn twice.”

“Have you any further orders?”

“None; except that you be here to-morrow night, to report progress in
the first affair. Then you can attend to this miner, Sayosa.”

“_Muy bueno!_ But, _’nor capitan_, I must have some money. I spent the
last _ocharo_ to-night,” hinted Sylva.

“_Voto a brios, picaro_, do you think I am a gold mine?” fumed the
choleric Lopez. “Here, take this, and be a little less free in your
riotings,” at the same time shoving six golden _onzas_ over to the
other, who eagerly clutched them, saying, as he slipped them, one by
one, into his pocket:

“You wrong me, master. Remember, there are many little bribes to give
that I can not avoid, and—”

“To say nothing of the _Chinas_,” interrupted Lopez, as he arose from
the table. “But remember; be diligent, and meet me here at this hour
to-morrow night,” and he turned away, without a look of recognition for
the obsequious bow of the unabashed ruffian, who then resumed his seat
with an air of relief, darting a venomous glance after his master, and
refilling his glass.

“Yes, you may strut and put on airs for a while longer, you cursed dog,
but only for a little while. Let me once receive my gold, and then—I
will give you a receipt in full! Oh, won’t it be delicious when I am
free, and settle your curses and your jeers with the knife? When I
strike you to the heart, and then, as you gasp out your life at my feet,
I will do as you have threatened me—pluck out your tongue and thrust it
down your throat! I could die then, perfectly happy. No, not die; oh,
no! I shall be rich then, and with the gold you give me, I will double
and double it, until I can count it by thousands of ounces! No, no, not
die; life would be too sweet then, and I will live for years—years of
pleasure and feasting. Oh, the gold, and wine, and women! for them I
will live—live forever!” murmured the hideous ruffian, as he drank
repeatedly from the bottles before him, lost to the present, busied only
with gorgeous images of the future.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                            A FEARFUL PERIL.


It was true, as Sylva Cohecho had stated, that the miners had again
returned to work. The overwhelming defeat experienced by the _Melladios_
had utterly awed them, and as the spies sent out by Lucas Planillas
returned with the news of their resuming their everyday occupation, the
Scarlet Shoulders doffed their insignia for the time being, and fell
into their old routine. But there was a code of signals and a plan of
communication arranged, by which the band could be collected in an
hour’s time, whenever such a step should be deemed necessary.

We must now ask the reader to accompany us to the interior of the mine
of _Los Rayas_, second only to that of Valenciana, in the state of
Guanajuato. Its history presents a new feature in the mining system of
Mexico, a brief explanation of which is necessary to a right
understanding of the operations of the mining code.

Over the fertile valleys in the vicinity of Guanajuato the Cordellera
rears its metaliferous crest, whose sides are veined with lodes of gold
and silver, and which delivers to the _tarreta_ of the miner the immense
treasures of the _Veta Madre_, or Mother Vein, perhaps the richest lode
of silver in the world. The striking contrast that is visible between
the laborer and the miner is nowhere so apparent as in this portion of
the _Bajio_, or “bottom of the valley.” Humble and submissive, the
Indian husbandman is at every one’s mercy. The miner, haughty and
independent, takes a higher rank; and this claim is justified by the
importance of the duty which he performs. Obliged to submit to labor
which yields him only limited results, the husbandman finishes his work
in silence; while the pickax of the miner resounds, so to speak, to the
end of the world, and at every stroke he is continually adding to the
riches of mankind. Prosperity is not long in coming to him. The slopes
of the hills, the ravines, and even the summits of the mountains swarm
with a dense population, among whom the lucky finders of a new lode
scatter their hard-earned money with a thoughtless liberality, and
squander in one day the earnings of six months. From the French miner,
Laberde, who discovered the “Mother Vein,” and lavished thousands upon
cathedrals, down to the meanest _peon_, the history of this bold workman
has been the same.

Fortune is the only God he worships. He goes to his dangerous occupation
as if specially sent there by Divine Providence; and this proud thought
is, by the laws of the country, highly favored, the privilege according
the title of nobility to the worker in the mines. Even at this day, he
can not be dispossessed by his creditor of his mine, if he can afford to
work it.

Besides a knowledge of metals to guide him in his search, the miner must
be endowed with a number of rare qualities, from that vigorous strength
indispensable to one who has to raise heavy burdens, and support all day
the enervating fatigue of underground work, down to activity and pliancy
of limb, united with undaunted resolution and coolness. Sometimes, after
toiling for a month, during which he has barely earned enough to live
upon, in a week, or even in a day, he recompenses himself for his long
privations. The miner then thanks Dame Fortune. He scatters his gold
with a lavish hand, and returns to his work only when all his gains are
exhausted.

When he strikes a _bonanza_, as a very rich portion of the vein is
called, those who work in _partido_, or when a share of the proceeds is
given him as wages, what he receives is often enough to keep him in
comfort all his life. But such is not his nature.

Besides the grand shaft (_tiro general_) Los Rayas has two others of
less magnitude, one of which reaches a depth of nearly eight hundred
feet. The _tiro general_, remarkable for the diameter of its shaft, of
thirty-four feet, and for its frightful depth, of almost twelve hundred
feet, communicates with three principal galleries, one above the other.
These shafts and galleries, together with their accessories, form the
most complete set of gigantic workings that are to be found in the
country. Of its vast and gloomy grandeur we shall not speak; better pens
than ours have described them. Nor of the workings continually going on
in their depths.

Marcos Sayosa was there, together with his comrades. The lighted candles
attached to their closely-fitting skull-caps, shining full upon their
muscular, bronzed bodies, trickling with perspiration produced by labor
and the close atmosphere, presented a weird picture. Just then the
hoarse voice of one of the _mandones_, or overseers, called out:

“_H’la, ’nor_ Marcos Sayosa, a gentleman wishes to ascend the _tiro
general_. Will you go with him?”

Ever willing to accommodate, the young miner signified his readiness,
and began the necessary preparation, looking somewhat curiously at the
stranger who was brave enough to risk the ascent upon his first visit to
the mine. Another miner was assisting him to dress in a sort of jacket
and trowsers, of thick wool, intended to prevent the water, that shot
forth in fine rain at several places along the shaft, from penetrating
his clothes. A long stick, or baton, was used to prevent his being
dashed to pieces against the rocks, by the oscillation of the rope, to
which they were fastened by means of a plaited rope made from the bark
of the aloe. Sayosa was about to take the post of danger, or the upper
position, when the stranger spoke, in a courteous voice:

“Pardon, _cavallero_, but I wish to go first?”

“And do you know the danger?” asked the astonished miner.

“Perfectly. I have often ascended that of Fresvillo, at Zacatecas.”

“Very well. If you are willing I am.” But he looked curiously at the
stranger, who, however, did not appear to notice this, as he was
attending to his strap.

He was rather tall, well-dressed, and of a handsome form that was not
impaired by his apparent age. Indeed, his lithe, springy movements did
not accord with his long, gray hair and beard that almost covered his
face. The gray skull cap was drawn close down to his eyebrows, and made
the disguise, if such it was, perfect. For a moment Marcos was slightly
suspicious; but when he heard the voice of the stranger this was lulled,
and he banished all such thoughts.

The signal was now given, and the two adventurers slowly ascended into
the shaft. For perhaps five minutes they advanced foot by foot, and then
the horses above paused for breath. Each of the men carried a torch in
his hand, but the light of which was rendered faint and uncertain by the
damp vapor that arose from the subterranean recesses.

For a novice it would have been a trying situation, replete with real
and imaginary dangers. Suppose the cable should break, or the strap in
which they sat should slip down the rope, or become untied? There was no
knot at the end to stop such. And then the fall!

To one the shaft seems to be divided into three distinct zones. At his
feet a thick darkness dimmed the horror of that gulf which no eye could
fathom. The very vagueness of the danger renders it tenfold more trying,
while the white, tepid vapors arise slowly from the dark bottom,
mounting toward them.

Close around them the torches lighted up with a smoky glimmer the green,
slime-covered rocks, cut and torn in all directions by the pickax and
the wedge. As the rope slowly twisted around, or oscillated from side to
side, the rough and jagged profiles appeared endowed with life, now
taking the form of some fearful monster, or assuming the shape of some
one of the horrible demons with which the fertile imagination of the
miners had peopled the bowels of the earth—guardian spirits of the
countless wealth, and by the illusion of a fanciful brain, excited at
the novel position, they appeared to be moving stealthily around to gain
your rear, and one half closes his eyes with the momentary expectation
of receiving its leap.

In the upper region a dense column of thick mist pressed around the
circle of light cast by the torches, shutting one completely out from
the light of day. It is a trying ordeal, even to a strong mind, and yet
it has its charm.

Then the ascent was resumed and the visions vanished. The stranger now
lighted a bundle of tow, steeped in pitch, at his torch, and dropped it
down the shaft. Their eyes could scarcely follow it, as it slowly
descended the pit, like a globe of fire, until it seemed as small as one
of those pole stars, whose light scarcely reaches the earth. Once more
the ascent paused.

“See, _mi amigo_, they pause again.”

“And for what?” returned Marcos, a little startled at the changed tones
of his companion.

“Because I wished it. We are now just half way from the bottom. Do you
know what would be the fate of a man who should fall from this
distance?”

“His body would be dashed to pieces upon the floor, but he would not
know it. He would be dashed to pieces before he reached it. But why do
you ask?”

“Oh, from a mere whim of mine, I suppose,” laughed the stranger, a wild,
half-sneering, half-ferocious laugh, that startled Sayosa, he scarcely
knew why.

“But why did you wish to pause here? The damp is not pleasant, and my
time is valuable,” he asked, a little impatiently.

“I wished to examine the walls, and tell you a little story. But fear
not. I will recompense you for lost time when we reach the upper world,
if we ever do.”

“If we ever do—what do you mean?”

“Why, if the rope should break—such accidents do occur sometimes, do
they not?—we would not be in a condition either to pay or receive, would
we?” and again that horrible laugh rung out, echoing from side to side
of the pit, and died away in a hoarse murmur.

“The blessed Virgin have mercy upon our poor souls if that should
happen!” uttered Sayosa. “But you spoke of a story. What is that to me?”

“Listen, and you shall hear. It is short, but the end will be most
interesting. There were once two young men, who or what they were you
shall soon know. They both loved the same girl, but one of them was
favored before the other. Indeed, the unfortunate devil had no
acquaintance with her, excepting a chance meeting. She did not even know
his name. But he loved her, nevertheless, with all the fervor of his
wild, untamed heart. And he would have married her, as he vowed when
first they met, but she proudly repulsed him. Ha! you start. Have you
heard any thing of the kind?” suddenly asked the stranger, as he bent
forward and looked Marcos full in the face.

“Go on!” hoarsely whispered the young miner, as he glared at his
companion, his suspicions newly aroused, more at the significant tones
than the words he had used.

“Well, they met again, and once more she scorned his suit. And then he
swore by all the saints that she should be his, not as a wife, as he
first intended, but a plaything—a toy that he could cast aside when he
was tired of it. But the two rivals met, and in a duel the poor devil
was worsted, by a mere chance. A few days afterward he was frustrated in
an attempt to carry off this fair damsel, and by this same rival. And
now do you know of whom I am speaking?” he hissed, as he drew a long
knife from his bosom, that glimmered in the torchlight.

The young miner did not speak, although he now knew who the stranger
was, and the horrible fate that was in store for himself. He felt at his
side for the knife he usually wore, but it was gone. As Estevan
Despierto—for he it was—noted the action, he laughed triumphantly, and
exclaimed:

“It is gone. I slipped it from your belt before we started up the
_tiro_. And see, I will be merciful. You said, a few moments since, that
the man falling from here would not feel the blow as he touches the
ground. See; I will draw the edge of this knife across the rope, and
down you go—down—down—down!” and he stooped still lower, to do as he
said, the first cut severing one of the large strands.

But his speech had given Marcos time to collect his strength, and in a
situation of such peril one reasons fast. He drew up his body, and felt
with his foot for the noose in which he had been sitting. As he gained
it, the second cut was given, and with a dull snap the cable parted, the
sound mingling with the ferocious laugh of Despierto. But the crouched
form of the young miner sprung upward, and his sinewy hands firmly
clutched both ankles of his would-be murderer.

It was a movement totally unexpected by the latter, and the sudden shock
nearly tore him from his perch. The torch and knife dropped from his
hands, as the latter instinctively raised to the cable and gripped it,
with the energy of despair. That fact saved them both, but for how long?
How would it end?

The vibration given to the cable forced it to and fro, until their forms
were nearly dashed against the sharp, jagged points of the rocks, to
touch which would be certain death, now that the ascent had recommenced,
the shock being evidently regarded by those above as a signal to wind up
the rope.

And they were only half way. Despierto strove with all his energy to
loosen the hold of his enemy, but in vain. Both feet were fast in the
vise-like grip of the young miner, who knew that if one hand, a finger
even, should slip, a horrible death was inevitable; that he would shoot
down—down through the vast tunnel, and if not suffocated, be killed upon
the rocks below, perhaps at the very feet of his comrades.

The murderer shrieked wildly, and implored the young miner to loosen his
hold, in his terror. _That the plaited strap of bark, by which alone
they were separated from death, was slipping, slowly slipping, down the
smooth, hard cable._

It would bear the weight of one; two, it could not. Marcos fully
realized his danger, but what could he do to avoid it? If Despierto
would only allow him, he could climb hand over hand up his body, and
cling to the cable above. But he knew, that if he loosened one hand to
clutch higher up, that the liberated foot would dash his hand from the
other ankle. There was nothing to do but to wait—wait and pray that the
outer world might be reached before the slip-noose should drop from the
end of the cable.

The young miner fixed his eyes despairingly upon the end of the rope,
where it had been severed by Despierto. The gloom was dense, but it
stood clear as a rush-light to the preternaturally acute gaze of Sayosa.
Slowly, but all too rapidly, it crawled away from him, until, to his
strained glare, it seemed like a drop of molten gold, millions of miles
above him.

Now it has vanished. The body of the disguised miner conceals it from
Marcos, who now feels all the horrors of the death he contemplates. Each
moment it seems to him that he hears the sudden _burr-r-r_ of the noose
slipping over the end. Oh, the horrors of those few minutes, so short in
time, and long, countlessly long in experience! This hanging, suspended
by a frail cord, between life and death, slowly nearing the one, while
yet the other creeps nigher.

Marcos Sayosa closes his eyes with a shudder. He is brave, but such a
death. Then Despierto utters a wild, piercing cry, but not of despair;
it is one of hope. The mists above them have vanished, and the blue sky
is visible. Oh, blessed sight!

Shriek after shriek they send up for help and as they are heard, eager,
half-frightened faces are seen peering down toward them. Then the
cracking of whips and loud shouts are heard, and the cable glides
swiftly up the _tiro_.

But see! not three inches hold the bark-strap. With a hoarse howl,
Marcos draws himself up by his arms, and then, with a desperate spring,
he releases his hold. To fail is death; to succeed is safety and _life_.

His long, sinewy hands clutched his foe around the neck. He draws up his
feet, and places them in Despierto’s lap. Then grasping the cable, so
massive that he can scarcely span it, he rests his feet upon the
shoulders of his companion.

The mouth of the shaft is close at hand, but the bark-rope now fails. It
slipped from the cable, and dropped over the body of Estevan Despierto,
who had grasped the rope with a death-clutch. A hastily-formed noose is
thrown from the side of the shaft. It misses Sayosa and falls upon the
upturned face of the other.

Crazed with terror, he releases one hand to grasp it, thus sealing his
own death-warrant. The smooth, hard cable slipped through his benumbed
hand. He sees his folly and strives to redeem it; but it is too late.
His hand only closes upon the end that he had severed with a far
different intention, and, as his body swiftly descends the ghastly
shaft, one wild, piercing shriek is all; it was his last breath.

Nearly unconscious, but still clinging tenaciously to the cable, Marcos
Sayosa was rescued from what had seemed certain death, and then, when he
was once more upon the earth, that he had mentally bidden good-by, he
sunk into a deep swoon, that for a time appeared to be death.

For an hour he remained thus, and the miners had nearly all rushed up
from the bowels of the earth, to learn the cause of the catastrophe, and
who was the victim. The fall had been heard, but upon inspection, no
clue could be gained as to the identity of the ghastly man that strewed
the floor. The severed end of the cable was found, and from its
clean-cut edges, they knew that foul play had brought on the result. The
old miner, who had witnessed the ascent, came, and, as he saw that the
rope had been cut _below_ the place where the stranger had been secured,
he whispered that the victim was their comrade, Marcos Sayosa, the chief
of the Scarlet Shoulders. With wild shouts and vows of vengeance, the
miners swarmed up the side shafts to avenge their comrade’s murder; for
he was the idol of their mine.

After a time, the young miner was able to relate the story of his
fearful peril and narrow escape; and, from the evidence of the old
miner, that the stranger had taken the upper position, his statement was
not doubted. But when he told the victim’s name, a murmur of surprise
and commiseration ran around the crowd, for Estevan Despierto had been a
general favorite, although not in so high a degree as Sayosa.

As soon as the young miner recovered his strength, from passing through
the terrible ordeal, he resumed his clothes, and mounting a horse that
one of his comrades had brought for his use, he slowly rode off toward
the _jacale_ of _tio_ Tomas Ventura.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                        THE JAROCHO’S PRISONER.


An old, gray-haired man, unarmed and upon foot, was slowly and wearily
walking along a narrow, faintly-defined pathway that wound, leading up
and around a precipitous hill that might almost be called a mountain. He
was dressed in a travel-stained suit of frayed and torn clothes, that
gave him the appearance of one of the beggars that may be met with in
the province described. His tall and once powerful frame was bowed
somewhat, and he leaned heavily upon his stout staff. His hands and face
were begrimed with dust, and this, added to a stiff, bristling beard of
several days’ growth, helped to complete the picture.

“Hold, _vagabundo_! what are you doing here?” challenged the voice of a
concealed man, and the wayfarer’s ears were saluted by a significant
_click_, so suggestive of an ounce of lead, as he suddenly paused and
exclaimed:

“Do not fire, _senor_ stranger; I am a friend.”

“Are there more of you?”

“I am alone, and, as you see, unarmed,” replied the traveler.

“Good. But who are you, and what do you seek here?” the challenger
added, as he stepped from his covert among the bushes, and leaped
lightly down into the pathway.

He was the _beau ideal_ of a hardy mountaineer, tall, handsome, and of a
fine, stalwart form. His dress was that of a _Jarocho_ (as all the
peasants who reside near the sea-coast and the country around Vera Cruz
are termed), and wore in all its purity the peculiar costume of this
class of men.

A hat of _Jipajopa_ straw, with the broad brim turned up behind; a fine
linen shirt, with a band of fine embroidery half hidden between frills
of cambric, worn without any vest or coat above it; and a pair of purple
cotton-velvet _calzeneros_, open at the knee, and falling in two points
to the middle of his calf. A scarf of scarlet China crape was knotted
around his waist, in which hung a straight sword, or _cortente_, without
sheath or guard, the sharp and glittering blade of which sparkled in the
bright sunshine. On his feet were half-boots of stamped Cardovan
leather, heavily spiked with steel. A very valuable, if only for its
gold and silver mountings, carabine was dropped into the hollow of his
left arm, while the thumb and forefinger of his right hand played with
the hammer and trigger, as he curiously scanned the traveler’s face and
form.

“The _senor_ can see that I am a poor, homeless traveler who has been
forced to beg his way from Tabasco, on foot, old as I am. And I fear me
my long journey has been for naught. I have only one hope left me now,
and I seek for Don Serapio Barana, or if he is dead, any of his old
band.”

“Ha! what may be your business with him, or I should say them?”
exclaimed the Jarocho, in apparent surprise.

“Do you know aught of him? The blessed Virgin grant that you may say
yes!” cried the traveler, eagerly. “Can you direct me to him?”

“Perhaps. But answer my question first. What is it you wish to know?”

“Listen, then; a few words will tell it. To Don Barana’s band of—of
_guerilleros_ there belonged a man called Tomas Ventura, and whom I have
lost track of for nearly twenty years. I wish to know whether he yet
lives, or if he is dead, to be shown his grave,” hurriedly uttered the
traveler.

“And for what—why should you look for him, who may have died years
since?”

“Senor, he was my brother!”

“Your brother?” slowly said the Jarocho, then added, after a slight
pause: “Well, I will trust you, as I think you are honest. I belonged to
the band at that time, and think I remember the man. But there are older
men among us, who may be able to tell you about him, for I was but a boy
then. However, do not hope for too good tidings, for I fear me he is
dead long since.”

As he finished, he drew an ivory whistle from his bosom, and blew a
shrill, quavering peal that echoed through the hills. In a few moments,
two men, attired much as their comrade, appeared upon the hillside, and,
after a short explanation, one of them took the place of sentinel, while
the other two led the way over a rough path up the hillside, followed by
the traveler. Turning a sharp spur in the hill, they passed the foot of
an almost perpendicular cliff, whose face was dotted with shrubbery and
parasitic plants.

The Jarochos led the way by a series of rude steps, partly the work of
nature, partly cut by the hand of man, up the side of the ascent. It was
a precarious footing, but their eyes were true, and then, when perhaps
three hundred feet from the base, a long line of shrubbery was reached,
bordering a ledge of some ten paces in width, that led into a spacious
cavern, hollowed out of the rock.

Within this natural fort there gleamed several fires, and further from
the entrance burned several rude lamps, either stuck into a crevice or
hanging from the roof. Forms of men, women and children were walking
around the cavern, or lying by the fires in every attitude of indolent
ease, smoking, sleeping, or playing cards. The flickering gleam of the
fires but imperfectly lighting up the recesses, playing over the
picturesque forms, rendered it a weird, fantastic scene.

A bustle followed the appearance of the stranger, and the form of a
monk, as his robe proclaimed him, advanced from a rude couch in one
corner, and, after a profound obeisance, the Jarocho introduced the
subject of the visit.

“And you wish to see this Don Serapio Barana?”

“If possible, holy father, yes,” replied the stranger, in a respectfully
low voice.

“You say it is to gain news of your brother; are you sure that you have
no other object?” persisted the _padre_, keenly eyeing the traveler.

“No, your reverence, I have no other object; and I pray you, if he is
yet alive, to direct me to him.”

“It can not be. He is dead!”

“Dead? Alas, then, my poor brother, art thou dead also?” murmured the
stranger, in a half-choked voice. “But may I not inquire among these
_cavalleros_, father? They may be able to give me some clue; but if not,
then, if you will allow me, I will join your band. You smile, but I am
worn now by sickness and fatigue. In a week’s time I will engage to
stand up before your best man, with whatever weapon he may choose, and,
my life upon it, I will not be the first to cry hold!” proudly said the
traveler, drawing himself up to his full hight, and glancing half
defiantly around the crowd gathered near the entrance of the cavern.

“And you have been—”

“A soldier, father, from my fifteenth year until I started in search of
my brother; and if he is no more, I care not what becomes of me. He was
the last of my race, and there is no one to care or think of me now. But
may I question the men?”

“Yes. But if what you tell me is true about your accomplishments, I
trust you will hear nothing against your staying with us. If you lose
one brother, you will find five score as true and good,” replied the
_padre_, speaking in a clear, full voice, and, as the Jarochos cast a
quick, significant glance at each other, he saw that he was understood.

“Thanks, holy father,” replied the stranger, as he bowed over the hand
that was extended him, and noticing the effect of the last words. “If it
were not a sin for me to speak so, I would say amen to your wish. But
first my brother, then myself,” and he was about to turn away, when the
priest spoke:

“Stay, my friend; as you are about to join our band—”

“Pardon, father; if I do not find my brother Tomas.”

“Of course. But I don’t believe you will learn any thing,” and he smiled
in a significant manner. “It has been so long since, you know.”

“True, I can but hope for the best.”

“But your name?” added the _padre_.

“Is Garote Ventura.”

“Good. When you have questioned the men, come to me, and I will fit you
out as a worthy Jarocho should be,” added the _padre_.

“If I do not learn of my brother,” answered Garote, with a bow.

“True; if,” smiled the monk, as he turned away to his couch, while the
other pursued his inquiries regarding the lost one with a praiseworthy
industry.

He did hear of Tomas Ventura, and if a tithe was true that was told him,
then his brother must have been a wonderful man, surely. Every Jarocho
appeared to recollect him, told tragic anecdotes in which he was the
hero, but all coincided that he was dead; the only point, however, upon
which they were agreed.

He was killed by a knife, gun, a fall from his horse, drowned, hung, by
falling over the cliff, drank himself to death; and one Jarocho even
affirmed that upon one night he saw the devil place the poor fellow
astride of his tail, bidding him hold fast around his body, and then fly
through the air, riding upon a streak of chain lightning. Oh, yes, he
was dead of a surety, and so at length Garote Ventura returned to the
_padre_, and announced his intention of becoming one of his band of
worthies, which resolve was warmly commended, and the holy father
ordered a general carousal in honor of the new recruit.

As a preliminary, the new member was sent with a score of others to
Manterial, a little hamlet some few miles distant, with orders to
procure all the wine, brandy, and liquor that they could carry, and if
the owners demanded pay, to settle the score with a _cortante_ or
_cuchillo_, by which proceeding he considered the novice would be
perfectly initiated into the mysteries of their craft.

Although nothing more serious was shed than some liquor, the expedition
was a success, and when they returned the orgies were begun. As there
was little fear of a surprise, the sentinels were called in to
participate, for no stranger could scale the precipice, unless in broad
daylight, without giving the alarm, and the rear entrance was securely
closed. All joined in the revelry, even the women and _padre_ Gayferos,
who proved himself a veteran in the art of wine-bibbing; excelling even
among the many experts that were there.

But among them all, there was not one more uproarious, or who filled his
cup oftener, than Garote Ventura. As _padre_ Gayferos trilled out the
last words of a love song, he suddenly started and glanced around the
group. Then pointing to a low, squat-built man, he roared out in a voice
that was not entirely free from hiccoughs.

“Andrez, thou drunken rascal, come hither!”

“Drunken, by the Virgin! ’Tis pleasure to hear the kettle call the pot
black,” muttered the fellow, as he arose to his feet, and using his arms
as balancing poles, staggered toward the monk.

“Eh! what’s that you say?” demanded the monk, a little sharply, as his
ear caught the words, although he did not fully comprehend them.

“I only wish the blessed Virgin would remove this killing pain in my
back, father,” stammered the Jarocho. “See; I can not stand upright, and
it twinges so that I nearly fall down from pain.”

“Abjure the cup, my son, and it will leave you. Oh, if you could only
see yourself now, as I see you, you would feel how disgraceful is
drunkenness. Andrez—Andrez, take pattern after me, and you will be a
better man,” reprovingly quoth the _padre_, shaking his head, and
looking as solemn as an owl.

“I will, holy father, I will. If I ever get less sober than you are now,
may the devil carry me off, as he did old Ventura,” said the fellow,
assaying a facetious wink, but which only had the effect of further
distorting his naturally ugly visage. “But your will, father, your
will?”

“Yes, my thoughts wandered. I was reflecting upon the sinfulness of poor
human nature,” and as he murmured, he poured a pint of wine down the
cavity that represented his mouth. “You know where the prisoner is, good
Andrez? Yes. Well, my heart is softened at the sight of our innocent
pleasures, and I wish you to take him this bottle of wine, to drink our
healths in. Poor devil, ’tis a long time since he tasted as good. Do you
hear?”

“Yes, your excellency; but don’t you think—hadn’t I, that is—”

“_Carrai, bobo!_ what do you mean?”

“You see if the—the pain in my back, your excellency, should overcome
me, I might fall and break the bottle; which would be a pity, you know,”
stammered Andrez, swaying to and fro.

“Thou speakest well, Andrez, my son. Here, take this; and now go,”
returned the priest, as he handed the outlaw a huge leathern bottle.

This was not exactly what Andrez meant, but he knew too well the fierce
temper of _padre_ Gayferos when once he was aroused, and dared not
hesitate longer. But before he had taken a dozen steps he fell to the
ground, rolling over and over as he assayed to arise. The new member of
the Jarocho band noted this, and he staggered over to the prostrate
fellow, and by dint of much pulling and tugging, managed to raise him
erect once more; and then he muttered, in a low tone:

“Come, _compadre_, I will go with you. See; lean on me and show me the
way to turn. So. We will do it finely,” as under Andrez’ guidance he
turned to the left, after taking down one of the rude lamps, to light
their way along the rough, uneven passage.

When once out of sight of the revelers, Andrez whispered:

“_Por_ Bacchus, _’nor_ Garote, the _padre_ is cruel in sending us here,
away from the wine. Suppose we drink together? The prisoner does not
need this wine as much as we. Besides, it is a shame for us gentlemen to
wait upon him;” he held up the bottle before him, shaking it and
listening to the musical rattle of its contents.

“’Tis true, Andrez. But who is this prisoner?” eagerly asked Ventura.

“Ho, ho! that is a secret, that is known only to the holy father and me.
Why, he would burn me alive if I so much as whispered that our old
_capitan_, Don Serapo Barana, was his prisoner. No, no, _’nor_ Ventura,
that is a secret—a secret, do you hear? And although you may be a true
man, I won’t share it with you,” rambled Andrez, with a drunken leer.

“True, I was wrong, as you say,” suppressing the exultant smile that
shot over his features. “But come, we will go to the cell, and then,
after we have drank the wine, will throw the bottle inside, so the
_padre_ will find it there to-morrow, and then he will not suspect us.”

“Good! that is it. Come, your arm. That cursed pain is in my legs now.
The rheumatism in my knee joints, you know.”

In a few minutes more the men were at the end of the passage, and
holding up the lamp, Ventura saw that a massive wooden door, thickly
studded with iron nails, and secured by a huge lock and two bolts, had
been set into the solid rock. It was a good piece of work, and appeared
strong enough to resist any thing short of artillery.

“Here we are at last, and, thank the Virgin, that pain has left me,”
muttered Andrez, as he dropped to the floor, and began to remove the
stopper of the flask. “Come, friend, let us drink and be merry.”

“Stop, _’nor_ Andrez; how do you open the door?” asked Garote.

“With the key, of course,” and he cut short his speech by introducing
the mouth of the flask into his own, while the wine gurgled merrily down
his throat.

“But where is it? If you have forgotten it, we must find it, or else the
_padre_ will find us out, after all,” added his comrade, a little
anxiously.

“Here, see; I carry it in my bosom,” said Andrez, as he pulled it forth,
attached to a cord that hung around his neck.

“Is it the right one, do you think?” and as he spoke Garote adroitly cut
the string, and placing the key in the lock, turned the bolt with some
effort.

“Hold, hold, _’nor_ Garote! I must let no one touch that but myself.
Hand it here, or, by the blessed Virgin, I will blow your brains out!”
shouted Andrez, as he grasped the pistol at his belt.

“There—see, here it is. And now let us drink. Hold, will you not leave
me a drop?” as the now satisfied Jarocho again elevated the flask, and
at the same time lowered the liquor.

“Ah, that is delicious!” murmured the drunkard, as he relinquished the
bottle and wiped his mouth upon his shirt sleeve. “I wish that the
curs—holy Mother, pardon me, I mean blessed _padre_ Gayferos would send
us upon this mission every night! Don’t you _conpairano_?”

“That I do! I would not have missed this chance for a thousand _pesos_,”
warmly returned the new member, as he handed the bottle to Andrez.

“If he send the wine, yes; if not, no.”

This time Ventura did not reprove his comrade for his gluttony, but
allowed him to drink as freely and often as he pleased. After a few
attempts, ending by missing his mouth, and pouring the remainder of the
liquor down the outside of his throat, Andrez dropped the flask, and
laying his head upon it for a pillow, closed his eyes. When the loud
music that streamed from his nostrils told that he slept the heavy sleep
of the drunkard, Ventura picked up the light, and with a steadiness that
would have astonished his comrade, had he seen the movement, opened the
door and entered the little cell.

Holding the lamp above his head, so as to cast its light around him,
Garote soon perceived the form of a man crouching in one corner of the
room, his eyes glaring wildly at the intruder, as if in mortal dread.

“_Santissima Virgin!_ can this be he, once so proud and handsome!”
murmured Ventura, as he scanned the wretched-looking object before him.

The prisoner started in wonder, partly at the face of a stranger, but
more from hearing the voice of kindness and commiseration, when he
expected curses and revilings, perhaps blows.

“Who are you?” he faltered, as he shielded his eyes from the glare of
the lamp.

“A friend, and if you are he whom I think, a rescuer,” returned Ventura.




                               CHAPTER X.
                          FELIPE’S CONFESSION.


Marcos Sayosa did not escape entirely scatheless from his frightful
peril at the _tiro general_, where Estevan Despierto attempted his
murder, for the shock had thrown him into a fever that settled upon his
brain. But fortunately it was not very severe, and in a week’s time he
was well again, although somewhat feeble. Still he would not return to
his work at the mine. The adventure had sickened him of that, for the
time being, at least.

Then he recalled his promise to visit the Canelo _hacienda_, and
thinking that a change of air and scene would do him good, he determined
to redeem it, and so announced to Tomas Ventura. On the next day the old
man told Carlita to get ready to pay an old friend a visit of a few
days. She knew better than to cross her father, and although wondering
inwardly what new whim he had taken, accompanied him to Donna Paxuita’s
house, greatly to that venerable dame’s surprise. But a few words from
Ventura satisfied her.

Marcos was also surprised, but still more so when _tio_ Tomas said that
he was going to accompany him upon his visit.

“You need not be troubled, Marcos. I shall not intrude upon the fine
folk, but stop with the servants. There is one there that I must see,
and this may be my only chance; for I do not believe that my days are to
be much longer,” he exclaimed.

“Pshaw, _tio_ Tomas, you will outlive me yet, see if you don’t. But are
you really in earnest about going with me?”

“So much so that there is but one thing that can prevent me.”

“And that?”

“Is _death_.”

“Do you know, _tio_, that I wish you would not speak so much about that?
It does not seem right, and gives me the cold chills whenever you
mention the word. Perhaps because I have stared it in the face so
lately,” said Marcos, with a little shrug.

“I may be wrong, but it seems to me that before many days, I, too, shall
stand face to face with it; only instead of evading it, as you did, it
will be the victor. I only hope that it may not be until after I have
seen the person I wish. Then it matters but little, for I know that you
will care for Carlita,” solemnly uttered Ventura.

“_Carambo, tio_, take a drop of this; it will warm you up and banish all
such idle fancies,” as he handed the old man a bottle of wine from the
cupboard against the wall.

“Not so idle as you think, perhaps; but we will see.”

Early the next day the two men rode out from the little timber belt, and
set out rapidly upon their journey. They were well mounted and
thoroughly armed, as indeed they needed to be, for the country then was
not the most peaceful or safe to traverse. They determined to divide the
journey into three days’ ride, as neither of them was very strong.

Nothing occurred till the third day of any consequence. They had halted
at about eleven o’clock, to lie by during the heat of the day, under a
few small trees that grew beside a spring, bubbling forth from beneath a
pile of sandstone. They kindled a fire to boil their chocolate, and, not
fearing any danger, were not particular as to whether they burned
perfectly dry or damp wood. In consequence, the smoke, thick and dark,
arose in a considerable column above the tree tops before the fire was
fairly started.

It caught the eye of a single horseman, who was riding along upon the
opposite side of the rocks, and, after eyeing it curiously for a few
moments, he slowly advanced in its direction. Then securing his horse in
a small ravine, he unslung his _escopette_, and proceeded to investigate
the cause.

But of this our two friends were, of course, unaware. They little
suspected that the hunter of blood was so near. Had a _zopilate_, that
dusky scavenger of Mexico, been sailing overhead, he would have seen
this picture:

The green clump of trees, shadowing the little rill of water that ran
from the sparkling, bubbling spring; the fire lighted and now bursting
into a bright, roaring blaze, with the forms of two men bending over it,
while their horses eagerly cropped the rich grass that grew hard by. On
the opposite side of the gray rocks he would have seen the dark form of
a man rapidly gliding along with trailed rifle, crouching half way to
the ground, until he had to bend his long arms to keep them from
dragging. This he would have seen, and more. Two horsemen swiftly
approaching the spring upon nearly the same trail as that followed by
Marcos Sayosa and Tomas Ventura, and consequently closed out from the
view of the solitary stalker.

His instincts would have told him that there was a fair prospect of his
dinner being afforded him, and he would have hovered over the spot.

The two men were sitting near the fire, engaged in conversation, when
one of the horses stamped his hoof and pricked up his ears, as though he
scented something suspicious. This did not escape the watchful eye of
Ventura, and, as he followed the direction indicated by the tremulous
ears of his horse, he saw a shaggy head rise from behind a boulder, and
then the bright barrel of a gun as it was leveled toward them.

“Look out, Marcos, there’s some deviltry going on!” he shouted out,
leaping forward and pulling the young miner backward to the ground.

Just then the gun cracked, and, with a wild yell of agony, the old man
fell to the ground, writhing and moaning with pain. The bullet that had
been intended for Marcos had passed through his own body. The youth saw
the jet of flame-colored smoke, and regaining his feet, he drew a pistol
and bounded forward to avenge the death of his companion.

The murderer, nothing loth, leaped from behind his covert, and with one
report the two pistols were discharged. Marcos was untouched, and Sylva
Cohecho received but a crease upon his shoulder, that acted as a spur.
Before either could draw another weapon, they came into collision, and
grappled with each other in a death struggle.

Although Sayosa was a powerful man, and had never before met his
superior, his late illness had weakened him considerably, and he found,
when too late, he was overmatched. The long arms of his antagonist
seemed like bars of flexible steel, and wound around him, clasping him
close to Cohecho’s body, with such force that it seemed as if his ribs
were being crushed.

Still, he struggled manfully, and, by being so much taller than his foe
and very active, he managed to keep his feet. But he was weakening, and
his head began to swim. Cohecho saw his advantage, and did not fail to
improve it. Under his enormous strength the tall, stalwart miner bent
and swayed, until, with a dexterous trip, the murderer threw his
antagonist, falling heavily upon him.

“Ah-ha! my game cock, your spurs are clipped now!” he growled, as he
kneeled upon the senseless body, and, drawing his knife from his
bootleg, tore open the shirt upon the young miner’s bosom, so as to gain
a fair blow.

When Tomas Ventura fell, he thought that he was mortally wounded, but
when he heard the struggle going on between his adopted son and Cohecho,
he raised himself up on one hand, fearing lest Marcos, too, should be
worsted. He saw enough to know that, unassisted, this would be the
result and, dragging himself along by his hands, he managed to reach the
guns, although the path was marked with his blood, and every motion
wrung a groan from his lips.

He reached and cocked one of them, supporting it by resting his elbow
upon the ground. Still he dared not fire, for the chances were as much
in favor of his hitting Marcos as Cohecho. But then the combatants fell,
and, as Sylva raised his knife to give the finishing blow, the
_escopette_ cracked and, true to its aim, an ounce ball crashed through
the huge, shaggy head of the hunchbacked monster.

When the smoke shut off his view, Ventura swooned away, and for a long
time all was blank. When he once more awoke to consciousness, he saw
that Marcos was bending over him, and there were strangers in the glade.
Then one of them approached and stood where the sunbeams fully revealed
his features. Tomas Ventura glared at him wildly for a moment, and then
shrieked:

“Holy Virgin, it is he!”

                             * * * * * * *

“And what is puzzling your brain now, Luisa, darling! You have been
silent for one whole ten minutes by the watch. Surely something dreadful
must be pending.”

“Why—was I still? I must have been thinking, Felipe.”

“Really? Well, as I never heard of your doing such a thing before,
suppose you tell me the subject of your thoughts. Come, call me your
father confessor, and begin.”

The speakers were Luisa and Felipe Canelo, who were walking in the large
garden at the rear of the house, that was surrounded by a moderately
high wall. They both looked somewhat abstracted, and Felipe particularly
so, as though ill at ease.

“Well, I know of none that would suit me better than my handsome, noble
brother,” she replied, with forced gaiety. “Come, here in the arbor. Let
us sit down and I will try to explain why I am ‘out of sorts,’ if you
will be as frank.”

“_I?_” echoed Felipe, as if astonished at her words.

“Yes, sir, you. Do you think you can blind me? I say that you have some
secret in your mind, and I must know what it is; so there!”

“Sis—Luisa, tell me what you mean. What is it that you know?” cried
Felipe, hoarsely, as he sunk upon the seat at her side.

“Brother, Felipe, are you ill? You are as pale as a ghost!”

“No, no; I am well, quite well. But tell me what you know—what you meant
by my secret,” tightly clasping her hands.

“A secret—did I say that? No, Felipe, I was only jesting. Surely, you
have no secret from me, your sister, who loves you so dearly?” asked
Luisa, gazing up into his half-averted face.

“Are you sure that you do not know—that you tell me the whole truth?”
faltered her brother.

“Felipe!”

“Pardon, sister. I believe I am mad of late—” he began.

“Yes, ever since that strange man visited you. Dearest brother, can not
you confide your troubles to your mother and sister? Who should you
trust if not those who are so proud of, and love you so tenderly?”
pleaded Luisa, pressing his hand.

“And so I will; but first, dear one, tell me of what you were thinking a
while since,” returned Felipe, as he banished the cloud from his face,
and turned toward his sister.

“You will not laugh at me, brother? Well, it was of that noble stranger,
who so gallantly rescued us from those ruffians.”

“And what did you think of him—in what way, I mean?”

“I can scarcely tell. When he first spoke to me, it seemed as though I
had often heard his voice before, and when he was silent, the words were
repeated over and over in my heart. And then something seemed to tell me
that he was connected with my future life, and that he would have great
influence over it. But whether for joy or sorrow, I could not tell. I
knew that I should meet him again, and that we would become very dear to
each other, and it was that secret voice that made me join my request to
yours that he would visit us. I have often thought of this since, and
tried to explain it to myself, but can not. We have not seen or heard of
him since, and yet I know that he will come, that he will be here soon,
and that my feeling will be explained. But how, or in what manner, I can
not tell. I only know that it will be so!” murmured Luisa, in a dreamy,
half-musing tone.

“And shall _I_ explain this miracle, Luisa?” asked Felipe, bitterly, as
he dropped her hand, and drew a little back.

“It you can, oh, if you can, dear brother!” exclaimed the maiden.

“I have solved many an enigma far more difficult than this one of yours,
child. You say that you know this young miner will come here?”

“He will; I feel it.”

“And what would you say, my sister, if he should come to you and ask you
to be his bride—to mate with _him_, the digger in the earth?”

“Felipe, what do you mean? You frighten me!”

“This. I mean that this Marcos Sayosa loves you. And more; that you love
_him_!” exclaimed Canelo, bitterly.

“Oh, brother, surely you are wrong. He does not love me, nor do I love
him—in the way you mean. And yet he _is_ very dear to me; I know it, and
perhaps I _do_ love him. I don’t know; it is so strange—so sudden; you
have frightened me!” cried Luisa, burying her face in her hands, and
sobbing convulsively.

“Pardon me, sister—dear Luisa; I was mad—cruel, to speak so fiercely,”
exclaimed Felipe, gently raising her head, and wiping the tears tenderly
away. “See, let this be my apology,” softly pressing a kiss upon her
brow.

“Thank you, Felipe; I was very foolish,” smiled Luisa, through her
tears, “but I could not bear that you should speak harshly to me. I may
love this stranger; perhaps I do, as you say so; but rest assured that I
love you far better—a thousand times better than him!”

“If I could believe that you would say this after you have heard my
confession, then I would be happy—oh, so happy!”

“I will, Felipe. Surely, you can say nothing to change it.”

“Ah, you do not know. You will hate me, scorn me, if I tell you my
secret!” he murmured, despondingly.

“Felipe, can not you trust me?” asked Luisa, reproachfully.

“Yes, yes; I will—I _must_. It burns my heart and racks my brain until
it seems as though I would go mad! But our poor mother; how will she
bear it? Holy Virgin! at times I am tempted to kill myself.”

“Don’t, brother—dear Felipe; you frighten me when you look that way,”
murmured Luisa, shrinking back a little.

“Frighten you, my angel? Not for worlds!” and he bent forward to bestow
a kiss, when he suddenly started back. “No, no, not now. If ever my lips
touch yours, the offer must first come from you, not me. It were a sin
now!”

“Felipe!”

“Wait. Do not speak or look at me. If you should, my courage will fail
me. Wait until I have finished my confession, and then—you shall judge
me. Luisa, if you loved a man with such love as you should feel for a
husband, and he should be guilty of a sin, a great crime, what would you
do? Would you hate and despise him, and tell him to begone where you
might never look upon his face again?”

“Not if he repented, Felipe, and acknowledged his sin of his own free
will. No. If I loved a man as you say, brother—if I loved him as I do
_you_, his fate should be mine. Where he dwelt, there would be my home;
in all things we would be but one. If the world neglected or scorned
him, I would try and make him forget all—all except that to me he was
dearest of all. Do you understand me? I can not say what I would, but
you can guess what I mean,” exclaimed Luisa, as she drew nearer to
Felipe.

“No, Luisa, not yet; wait until I have told all, and then if you forgive
me, put your hand in mine. But think well. If you do, it will be
mine—mine forever! But now, listen.

“Luisa, _I am not your brother, but am an impostor_! Stay. Do not speak
yet; let me finish, now that I have said the worst. But as the blessed
Virgin knows, I thought that I was when I first came. In that, at least,
I am innocent.

“The story that I told you and moth—_your_ mother, was all true, so far
as concerned myself. I was raised among your uncle’s band of Jarochos,
and taught to consider myself an orphan. Who or what my parents were, I
could never learn. They either did not know, or would not tell me. As I
grew older, I learned how wicked were the ways of my comrades, but I
could not resolve to leave the only friends that I had ever known, and
still continued with the band. But I did not join them upon their
plundering excursions, and managed to live fairly by selling the game I
killed, or its hides. Then, as I told you, when I returned from one of
my excursions, I found our captain, or your uncle, lying wounded unto
death; and then he told me who I was, giving me the letter to carry to
your mother and whom he swore was also my parent. God help me, I did not
dream that a dying man would so perjure himself, and I believed all that
he told me!

“You know how I was received, and that your mother was struck by my
resemblance to your dead father, even before the letter was opened. But
I can not dwell upon that now—now that I have lost it all. Then came the
note that so astounded me, when I left you here, to meet the writer, who
was none other than the lieutenant of the band to which I had belonged.
I met him, and then, for the first time, I learned the plot of which I
had been made the instrument.

“He told me that I was not your brother; that he was dead, and showed me
a letter from your uncle saying as much. He then offered me my choice.
Either to pay two thousand _onzas_ each year, and he would be silent,
otherwise he would expose the imposition to Senora Canelo. What could I
do? That which was right, you say; but I could not. Holy Mother, forgive
me, I promised the villain that I would submit to his demands, and in
that was my sin, or part of it.

“The other was in receiving the caresses of you two—ladies, that
belonged to a relation—not to me, the impostor. But my punishment was
begun, even then. How could I look you in the face, and know, that if
you only realized what a wretch I was, in reality, that you would as
soon place to your lips a plate of red-hot iron, as to have kissed me.
Can you guess how the words, ‘_mother—sister_,’ choked me as I was
forced to utter them. But that was not all.

“When I found that you were not my sister, the love that I had thought a
brother’s grew stronger and more painful, until I found that I loved you
as only a man can love once in his lifetime. God knows how I strove to
subdue it, and crush it out from my heart; but could I? Ah, no; it grew
from day to day, hour to hour, until it became my master. It showed me
the crime that I had contemplated, and at last I resolved to confess it,
and then fly from the spot where I had been so happy, but I must again
make miserable!” concluded the young man, as he covered his face with
his hands, and wept the bitter tears of one whose soul is rocked with
agony.

For a few moments Luisa set as if petrified, so sudden and unexpected
had been the shock. But then the wild look passed from her eyes, and as
they dimmed, her hand stole slowly along and rested upon that of him
whom she had believed her brother. As he felt the light touch he shrunk
away, as if it had been a serpent, and exclaimed:

“Stay, Luisa; do not touch me!”

“Felipe, do you remember what you said a while since? _Here is my
hand_,” whispered the maiden, as she again touched his hand with hers.

“Luisa, think what you do. If I take your hand, remember that it is for
ever; as that of my wife!” cried Felipe.

“Still I say, take it, Felipe—must I say it? _I love you!_”




                              CHAPTER XI.
                       IN THE CAVE AND OUT OF IT.


As the Jarocho’s prisoner heard these words spoken by Garote Ventura, he
approached, but with the hesitating step of one who doubts, while yet he
hopes. The glow of the lamplight shone full upon him, and Ventura’s eyes
quickly and keenly scrutinized his form and every feature.

In stature he was tall, unusually so, and although now greatly
emaciated, had once been a robust and powerful man. The muscles of his
arms and chest still stood out like bands of steel, showing plainly
through the tatters that served him for clothes. Although his hair was
thickly threaded with silver lines, his form was not yet bowed, nor the
fire quenched in his large, keen black eyes.

The remnants of his former beauty could still be discerned—the proud,
well-cut profile and noble features, although marred somewhat by grims
and wrinkles, were yet plain enough for any one who had known him in
better days, to be enabled to recognize him now.

“A friend, and if you are he whom I think, a rescuer,” Garote Ventura
had said.

“The Virgin grant that I may be! But it can not be. A friend to me, and
here? No, no, I was foolish to think so,” bitterly exclaimed the
prisoner.

“Perhaps not,” added Ventura. “I think you are the one I seek, and if
so, in an hour’s time you may be far from here, if you wish it.”

“If I wish it!” echoed the captive.

“Yes. But tell me who you are. Stop. If you are he whom I mean, you have
committed fearful crimes. But you have reparation in your power; and if
you perform it faithfully, I think I may promise that you can live in
peace, to go whither you will,” he added, impressively.

“You ask my name. If it were stained with a tenfold blackness, I would
speak it, in the chance of escaping from here. And yet it was a noble
one once, until _I_ defiled it! I am, or _was_, Agustin Canelo,”
answered the prisoner.

“I thought so. But, holy Mother of Mercy, what a change!” murmured
Garote, as he gazed at the man. “It is good. You are the man that I
seek, and I will keep my word, although you murdered my master.”

“Your master? Who are you?”

“Look. You should know me. I have not changed so much. Think; can you
not remember the time that I used to carry you upon my back, playing
horse?”

“Tadeo Campos?”

“Yes, I am Tadeo Campos. But we have no time to lose. Remove your rags,
while I haul in this drunken scoundrel.”

In a few moments Andrez was pulled inside the cell, and his clothes
donned by the prisoner, although not without some difficulty, for they
were several sizes too small. Tadeo Campos, as we must now call him,
relocked the door from the inside, and coolly seated himself upon the
body of Andrez, much to the surprise of Canelo.

“Why do you stop here, Campos? Every moment seems an age until I am free
from this cursed hole once more,” impatiently exclaimed the latter,
fingering nervously the weapons that he had taken from the drunken
Jarocho.

“For two reasons. One is, that it is best to give the gentlemen outside
a little more time to swill their wine, for, unless their wits are
somewhat foggy, you would never pass for our dumpy friend Andrez, here.
And the other, is to do justice to your brother’s family—to prove who
their son is. Will you promise to do this?”

“I will; any thing so that I can get away from this hole and the
tortures of that cursed _padre_ Gayferos. But, supposing the _boy_ is
dead?” added Canelo, anxiously.

“It may be. But the one you sent is an impostor, at any rate. But we
will settle that afterward. Will you do all that lays in your power to
do?”

“I will!” emphatically replied the other.

“Well, it may be so, but I am a cautious man by nature, and experience
has doubled it. If you will swear to tell the entire truth, to answer
fully and explicitly all questions that may be asked you—if you swear
this, I say, and kiss the holy cross, I will set you free. If—”

“If not?”

“Then I will raise the alarm, and you may do the best you can.”

“Enough, I will swear it,” hastily said Canelo.

The crucifix was produced, and the required oath taken, when Tadeo said:

“Now you remain here while I go and reconnoiter. If all is right we will
be free in half an hour. But blow out the light, as it might be seen as
I open the door.”

“You will come back?” faltered Canelo.

“If I meant to betray you or do you harm, would I have taken all this
trouble?” returned Campos, impatiently.

“Pardon, good friend; I am sadly changed from what I once was.”

The _capataz_, after extinguishing the light, softly opened the door and
stepped forth. Then he saw the wisdom of having put out the light, for,
just turning the nearest angle, he saw a man bearing a light, and then
recognized it to be none other than _padre_ Gayferos. He only paused
long enough to note that the worthy priest had imbibed such a quantity
of the confiscated wine, that he was laying off a somewhat irregular
pattern for a “Virginny rail fence,” and muttering incoherently to
himself. Then he slipped inside the cell, and after silently locking the
door, told his companion of the approaching visitor.

Canelo shuddered and shrunk back as if in fear, so great had been the
tortures that he had endured at the monk’s hands, when unable to resist.
But as his hand touched the knife at his waist, this vanished—the sudden
change boding ill for the enemy, should he fall into the ex-prisoner’s
hands.

They both stood close to the door, and soon heard the tipsy priest
fumbling at the lock for some time before he could fit his key into
place, cursing fearfully at every breath. But at last the bolt yielded,
and he kicked the door wide open. Canelo sprung forward with a howl like
a wild beast, and clutched the monk by the throat, while Tadeo grasped
the lamp.

The two foes fell to the ground, and by some means the light was dashed
from Tadeo’s hand, and shattered to pieces upon the rocky floor. He
turned to light the other, for he could do nothing in the dark, and knew
that their safety depended upon the monk’s capture without an alarm
being raised. A few moments sufficed for this, but when he turned the
light upon the two men, a horrible, sickening sight met his gaze.

The half-crazed Canelo was kneeling upon the breast of _padre_ Gayferos,
brandishing a gory knife in one hand, while the other clutched his
victim’s throat. He had slit the unfortunate man’s mouth from ear to
ear, and actually torn out his tongue by the roots, and then thrust it
down his throat!

Acting on the impulse, Tadeo leaped forward and knocked Canelo from his
victim’s body, and then buried his long knife to the hilt in the
priest’s breast, at once putting an end to his tortures. As he turned,
it was just in time to avoid the rush of Canelo, and elude the vicious
plunge of a _cuchillo_, that slit open the clothes upon his side. Then,
before the mad man could turn, he was upon his back, driving him head
first to the floor; when, placing a knife at his throat, Campos hissed:

“_Mil diablos_, ingrate! Is that my reward for risking my life to save
yours? By the Virgin of Atocha, I have a mind to serve you the same
trick that you did the _padre_, cursed dog!”

“I was mad, good Campos, and knew not what I did. And if you only knew
the tortures that man has subjected me to, you would praise not blame
me. But let me up now. It has passed and I am myself again.”

“I will. But look you. If you make a motion toward me, I will plaster
the wall with your brains, as I’m a living man. Do you hear?”

“You may. Take my weapons if you will, but let me up. We must be going.
They may discover us, and then—”

“And then; yes, I know,” said Campos, as he arose, keeping a watchful
eye upon his companion. “Come, drag this carrion into the cell, and then
we will be going. It is time now, if ever.”

This was quickly done, and as the monk was fully as large as Canelo, he
exchanged clothes once more, knowing that he would run less risk of
detection in that garb than the other, for no one of the Jarochos would
venture to address him unless spoken to first, so great were their fears
of the _padre_.

“I will lead the way,” said Canelo, “and you follow close. I know every
inch of the passage, even in the dark.”

The lamp was extinguished, and, after locking the cell door and
retaining the key, the two adventurers stole cautiously along the
passage. The sounds of the outlaws carousing grew rapidly plainer, and
from the number of voices combined it was plain that Tadeo had either
overrated the strength of the wine, or underestimated the strength of
the reveler’s brains. Still they did not despair, but resolved to run
the risk at once, and trust to their good fortune and the priestly
disguise to carry them through, rather than delay longer.

“Will you risk it?” asked Campos.

“We _must_. I can imitate the _padre’s_ air and motion.”

“Remember that he was slightly tipsy, and if you shroud your face and
long hair in the cowl, I think there will be no particular danger,”
whispered Tadeo, as they paused at the angle from whence the first
glimpse could be caught of the orgies.

Fully one half of the Jarochos were overcome totally by their potations,
and lay scattered about, regardless whether they rolled upon the table
or beside it, as it was all the same hight. In some cases they were used
for seats, in others as pillows, and the crowd amply made up in loudness
what it had lost by the decrease in numbers. Men, women, and children
were mixed in one grand, ever-shifting panorama, but indistinctly
revealed by the faint, flickering light.

Making the best of a bad bargain, the two adventurers entered the grand
apartment, and reeling in a zigzag course, proceeded toward the top of
the “staircase.” But they were destined not to escape without
interruption. Tadeo Campos was recognized (as Garote Ventura), and
recollecting that it was in honor of his having joined the band that
they were carousing, began to call him to come and drink with them,
several of the more sober men rising and staggering toward the two
adventurers.

Then it was that the monk’s garb stood them in good stead. Fearing lest
he should be recognized if they approached too closely, Canelo turned,
with his face and head still shrouded in the cowl, and with a very fair
imitation of the _padre’s_ voice, said:

“Go back to your wine. Our brother Ventura hath something to confide to
me, that may prove of great benefit to the band. _Cuerpo di Cristo!_ ye
dogs, do you hear me? The one who comes a step nearer will drink no
more, for his head will be all mouth! Back with you, you sacrilegious
thieves!”

The Jarochos paused, and then returned to their liquor, for the steely
glitter of the monk’s pistol awed the boldest of them. But there was
considerable muttering among them, and one especially, whose comments
were overheard by our friends.

“By Venus, the _padre_ is in grum humor all of a sudden. I guess _’na_
Jesusita was not in the mood to be confessed tonight.”

A wild, boisterous peal of laughter followed this pointed remark, and
Canelo deemed it best not to notice it, although he well knew what would
have been the _bona fide padre’s_ answer.

They had now nearly reached the edge of the platform and were
congratulating themselves inwardly upon their happy escape, when a man
arose from the face of the cliff, and meeting them, at once dropped upon
his knees before the disguised men, murmuring:

“Your benediction, holy father!”

This renconter was so sudden and unexpected that Canelo started back
with an exclamation of dismay, and at the same moment the cowl dropped
back from his face. The man looked up, and, as the moonlight shone full
upon the ex-chief’s features, he uttered a gasp of terror:

“_Santissima Virgin!_ the captain’s ghost!”

Fortunately Tadeo Campos did not lose his presence of mind, and as the
intruder arose he leaped forward, and shot out his clenched fist, the
blow alighting full upon the unprotected throat of the Jarocho, its
terrible force effectually checking any further outcry, and at the same
time hurled him headlong down the precipice. There was a dull, horrible
thud, and then all was still.

Glancing around at the Jarochos, half expecting to see the band come
rushing in a body to avenge their comrade’s death, the two men grasped
their weapons, determined to sell their lives dearly, if such must be.
But to their great joy they saw that the outlaws were unconscious of the
tragedy just enacted, and then hastily began their perilous descent.

By keeping close to Canelo, and stepping in his footprints, Campos
effected it in safety, and in a few minutes they were both standing in
the firm path at the foot of the precipice. Then Canelo muttered, in a
cautious voice:

“And now the next thing is to procure horses, for we can not go upon
foot, as we may be followed at any moment.”

“I have a horse four miles from here, where I left him at a _jacale_ as
I came,” returned Tadeo.

“We can do better than that. The stable of the band is not far from
here, and in it are the best horses for leagues around, or was, when I
was chief. I do not think that there can be any guard left there, as it
would be almost impossible for a stranger to find it, even in the
daytime. Besides, you said that _padre_ Gayferos bade _all_ the men join
in the carousal?”

“He did; and when it began all were present who were at home, or at
least so I was told in answer to my questions. But that man whom we
threw over the cliff? Who was he?”

“Not one of the regular members, but a sort of spy who lives at the foot
of the mountain. He came with news, I presume.”

“Well, then, if you think best, let us hasten to the stable, for the
further we are away from this den by daybreak, the safer I will feel
about my neck. For my part, I have seen quite enough for one night,
although they do not stint one in wine, and it was first-class, too,”
said Tadeo, as he closely followed his companion, who now turned up a
narrow defile, the bottom of which was thickly strewn with coarse
gravel.

“And a little of that same wine would not be amiss now. But silence; we
are nearly there,” cautioned Canelo.

After making several abrupt turns, the two men paused in front of a
dense thicket, and Canelo uttered a low, peculiar whistle, then repeated
it twice, at short intervals. There was no answer, and again he sounded
the signal, but with the same result.

“It is as I thought. There is no one here. Come; in five minutes we will
be clear of the mountain,” cried Canelo, joyously, and closely followed
by Tadeo Campos, pushed through the yielding screen of bushes, and after
a few steps they entered a spacious chamber, excavated from the earth.

Numerous large, lustrous eyes, in pairs, were turned toward them, and
when Canelo lighted the lamp that he had brought with him from the cell,
the glow showed them the sleek forms of a large number of horses,
standing in rude stalls, with their accouterments ranged along the other
side of the “stable.” A few moments sufficed to saddle and bridle the
two animals they had selected, and then once more extinguishing the
light, they led their steeds out along the way they had entered, and in
a few minutes were clear of the hill and speeding along the valley.

After riding some miles in silence, they drew in their horses to a walk
to breath them, and Canelo broke the silence by saying:

“But you have not told me yet how it was you learned I was a prisoner,
and where they had confined me. How was it?”

“Well, in the first place, I overheard a conversation between master
Felipe, or rather he who passes as such, and a precious scoundrel who
called himself Don Lopez Romulo—”

“Barajo; he goes by both names.”

“Yes. And I then learned that the young man was an impostor, and that
you were yet alive. He did not then hint that you were a prisoner; that
I learned afterward. Well, this Romulo or Barajo gave Don Felipe an
address at Guanajuato, where he was to call and pay him a lot of money
to keep the secret he had got hold of. I heard the address and resolved
to be at the meeting.

“When the night came, I was hanging round the _venta_, which was in a
low part of the city just at the outside edge. I waited until Don Romulo
came out, jingling his pocketfull of golden ounces, and after following
him until he came to a dark alley, I gave him a few inches of cold
steel, and dragged him into the alley, out of the way, and where I would
not be interrupted by any person passing by.

“I had not intended to kill him at once, but only disable him, and then
frighten him into telling where I could find you, and any thing else
that might be of service. He was badly hurt, and it was not hard to
frighten him into doing as I wished, for the beggar vowed that he was
not fit to die, and I did not spare my threats.

“Somehow he mistook me for one Ventura—Tomas Ventura—who had once
belonged to his band, and told me all that I wanted to know. That you
were kept a prisoner by him and a priest, who had forced you to write
the letter given to Felipe, and make him believe that you was dying; and
the place where I would find the band.

“I saw that the poor devil would not live until morning, and as he would
have no use for the gold at the place he was booked for, I transferred
it to my own pocket, and left him where he lay. Then I resolved to act
upon what I had learned, and try to rescue you, that the whole truth of
the matter might be arrived at.

“So I passed myself off as Garote Ventura, seeking for my dear brother
Tomas, and as you know, gained my object after some little trouble. And
now, is this boy, the _real_ Felipe Canelo, alive, or not?”

“I believe that he is dead,” slowly answered Canelo. “Yes, he must be.
He said he killed him.”

“Now look you, Senor Don Augustin Canelo,” hotly replied Campos. “I am a
quick-tempered man, as you know well, and when I make up my mind to a
thing, I generally do it. Now you may be perfectly honest in what you
say, but I don’t believe that you are. I have not told you all I heard
from this Lopez Romulo, and it is a clue that I can follow up, if you do
not satisfy me. It may be hard and require time, but it can be done, if
needs be. And if you play me false, by the Virgin of Atocha, you will
find the hand that set your body free will not hesitate long about doing
your soul the same service. Do you understand me?”

“I do. But there is no need of such heat. I told you I was changed, and
moreover, I have sworn upon the holy cross to reveal the truth. What I
may have to say I will keep until it can be told to Senora Canelo
herself,” proudly answered Don Augustin.

“Good! now I know you again. I will trust you,” exclaimed Tadeo Campos,
as he set his horse once more into a gallop.




                              CHAPTER XII.
                             EXPLANATIONS.


“Thank the Virgin, we are nearly at the spring where we can get a good
drink of cold water. I am nearly famished with thirst!” exclaimed Tadeo
Campos.

“Yes, this cursed road, added to the sun’s heat, is intolerable. See,
the horses know it as well as we do, although I doubt whether either of
them were ever within fifty leagues of the place,” returned Augustin
Canelo, as their jaded beasts increased their pace of their own accord,
with loud whickers of delight.

In the course of a few minutes the little grove was sighted, and as the
horses broke into a gallop, Tadeo, who was looking intently toward their
intended resting-place, uttered an exclamation of vexation, and pulled
up his horse, almost throwing him upon his haunches.

“Maldito! see, a fire!”

“Sure enough, some one is before us. But there can be no danger. Let’s
advance. We must have water, and will, if I have to fight for it!”
impatiently exclaimed Canelo, clapping spurs to his horse’s side, and
charging ahead, closely followed by Tadeo.

Then they heard a report, succeeded in a few moments by another, and
again they halted. By this time they were close enough to the spring to
note the struggle going on between two men, and then, as they fell to
the ground, another puff of smoke came, followed by a report, and the
uppermost combatant fell backward with a wild yell.

After waiting for a few minutes, and seeing nothing to occasion further
alarm, the two travelers approached the spring, with arms in readiness,
and sheltered behind their horses’ bodies.

There was no need of this caution, however, as they soon found, and as
but one of the three men showed any signs of life, they at once set
about restoring him. The first words that Marcos Sayosa spoke when he
once more opened his eyes, were of Tomas Ventura; then noting the old
man lying apparently dead, the young miner rushed to his side, not
heeding the astonishment that was pictured upon the face of the two
travelers.

On examination, they found that although very badly wounded, Ventura was
still alive, and set about restoring him. For a long time all efforts
were futile, but then the old man opened his eyes, and when they rested
upon Augustin Canelo, he exclaimed:

“Holy Virgin, it is he!”

“And are you indeed Tomas Ventura?” eagerly asked Canelo.

“Yes, yes, but I shan’t tell you; you would kill him! Yes, you would
kill the boy, so you could get his wealth. Ah-ha, I know you—I know you
well. You wanted me to murder the babe, but I fooled you; ha! ha! ha!
yes, I deceived you!” screamed Tomas Ventura, wildly.

“Then he lives—you did not kill him? The child, I mean?”

“Yes, yes, I did—I did kill him! Marcos, Marcos, come here, or he will
murder you because you stand between him and wealth. Come, let us go to
Senora Canelo, your mother, Marcos; she will protect you!”

“Peace, _tio_, no one will harm you now. These gentlemen are friends.
They saved our lives, don’t you remember?” said the youth, soothingly.

“No, I tell you, no! He is your deadly enemy, that man is. He is your
uncle, and hired me to kill you, but I deceived him, and now you will be
rich—rich, and so will Carlita!”

“This is not altogether raving, senor,” said Canelo, to Marcos, as the
latter glanced at him. “But we can not explain now. When we get to the
_hacienda_, I will do so. Do you think he could be borne in a litter?”

“Yes, yes, I _must_ bear it! I must see the Senora Canelo before I die,
to tell her all I know,” cried Ventura, eagerly.

“Don Augustin, what does this mean?” asked Tadeo Campos.

“You hear. It is true what he says. I did hire him to dispatch Felipe
Canelo, and if he speaks true, then this man must be the real heir.”

“The features are the same as his father’s. Holy Mother, if it should be
true!” murmured Campos, placing a hand upon the shoulder of the
astonished youth, and keenly scrutinizing every feature.

“Felipe Canelo—what do you mean? Who am I?” he faltered.

“We shall soon see. But come. We must fix a litter between two horses,
and convey Ventura to the _hacienda_. There is no time to lose,”
returned Canelo.

The litter was soon formed, and the wounded man placed in it. Before
they started, the body of Sylva Cohecho was examined, but nothing of any
importance discovered. Canelo recognized him as one of the Jarochos who
had belonged to his band. He was left where he had fallen, to feed the
_zopilate_ or _coyote_, a fitting end for the brutal traitor and
murderer.

As they rounded the pile of granite, the concealed horse that had
belonged to Cohecho was discovered by his whickering, and then the party
were again remounted, and able to travel at a tolerable rate without
inconvenience. It was some time after dark when they reached the
_hacienda_, and while the wounded man was being cared for, Tadeo Campos
proceeded to break the news to Senora Canelo.

He found the three sitting together, and, as Felipe had confessed his
fault to the elder lady also, his task was far less difficult than he
had anticipated. This he learned before he told his story, and, thus set
right, he narrated what he had overheard, and the resolution he had come
to, of searching out the uncle, Augustin Canelo, and how he had
accomplished it; not, however, without many interruptions from his
hearers. He dared not tell all at once, but hinted that it was barely
possible the missing son might be found yet. Indeed, that he was almost
certain of his being yet alive and well.

In the meantime, Augustin Canelo had been closely questioning Tomas
Ventura, who was now perfectly sensible, and was finally convinced that
the youth we have known as Marcos Sayosa was none other than the
long-mourned-for Felipe Canelo.

The astonishment of the latter, who heard it all, may be better imagined
than described, when he found that he was the brother of the beautiful
Luisa who had so deeply interested him, and that the handsome, stately
lady was his mother.

On the next day the entire party collected, and all matters were fully
cleared up, although it was a painful meeting between the injured mother
and the murderer of her husband. No further doubt remained as to the
identity of Marcos, or Felipe, as we must now call him, and he was
warmly, almost wildly, welcomed by his mother and sister.

And the one who had believed himself the stolen son was not the least
happy among them, although his birth and parentage were once more
shrouded in mystery. All Canelo could tell him was that he had been
taken by a detachment under Lopez Romulo, or Barajo, in an attack in
which all but he had been slain by the Jarochos. For what he was spared,
could not now be told.

Canelo had been threatened with death with the demands of the priest and
Romulo, and it was then that the letter was written, and the youth
deceived as to his parentage. After his departure, Canelo had been
confined in the cell with the knowledge of only Andrez beside the two
confederates; it being given out that he had died, and was buried, at
his own request, by the priest and Romulo.

The youth once more took his name of Barana, but, to prevent confusion,
changed Felipe into Florencio, and some two months after the discovery
of the real heir, there was a double wedding, in which Felipe and
Carlita, Florencio and Luisa, played the leading parts, and it is on
record that neither of the quartette ever had cause to regret the act.

Tomas Ventura recovered from his wound, and lived to play with the
children of _his_ children, as he called Felipe and Carlita, dying at a
“green old age,” outliving Tadeo Campos, who, however, taught Felipe
junior how to ride and swim.

Augustin Canelo entered a monastery, but did not live long after
renouncing the world, his constitution being undermined by the tortures
he had endured at the hands of the fiendish _padre_ Gayferos.

Felipe made good use of his mining experience by discovering a rich
silver lode upon his own land, and was very successful in working it.

Lucas Planillas was not forgotten by Felipe, who made him his head
_mandorne_ upon his silver mine, and the majority of his comrades who
had borne the “Scarlet Shoulder” knots were employed by him as workmen.

“And so we leave them, in peace and happiness.”


                                THE END.




                                STANDARD
                             Dime dialogueS


            For School Exhibitions and Home Entertainments.

Nos. 1 to 21 inclusive. 15 to 25 Popular Dialogues and Dramas in each
book. Each volume 100 12mo pages, sent post-paid, on receipt of price,
ten cents.

           Beadle & Adams, Publishers, 98 William St., N. Y.

These volumes have been prepared with especial reference to their
availability for Exhibitions, being adapted to schools and parlors with
or without the furniture of a stage, and suited to SCHOLARS AND YOUNG
PEOPLE of every age, both male and female. It is fair to assume that no
other books in the market, at any price, contain so many useful and
available dialogues and dramas of wit, pathos, humor and sentiment.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 1.

  Meeting of the Muses. For nine young ladies.
  Baiting a Live Englishman. For three boys.
  Tasso’s Coronation. For male and female.
  Fashion. For two ladies.
  The Rehearsal. For six boys.
  Which will you Choose? For two boys.
  The Queen of May. For two little girls.
  The Tea-Party. For four ladies.
  Three Scenes in Wedded Life. Male and female.
  Mrs. Sniffles’ Confession. For male and female.
  The Mission of the Spirits. Five young ladies.
  Hobnobbing. For five speakers.
  The Secret of Success. For three speakers.
  Young America. Three males and two females.
  Josephine’s Destiny. Four females, one male.
  The Folly of the Duel. For three male speakers.
  Dogmatism. For three male speakers.
  The Ignorant Confounded. For two boys.
  The Fast Young Men. For two males.
  The Year’s Reckoning. 12 females and 1 male.
  The Village with One Gentleman. For eight females and one male.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 2.

  The Genius of Liberty. 2 males and 1 female.
  Cinderella; or, The Little Glass Slipper.
  Doing Good and Saying Bad. Several characters.
  The Golden Rule. Two males and two females.
  The Gift of the Fairy Queen. Several females.
  Taken In and Done For. For two characters.
  The Country Aunt’s Visit to the City. For several characters.
  The Two Romans. For two males.
  Trying the Characters. For three males.
  The Happy Family. For several ‘animals.’
  The Rainbow. For several characters.
  How to Write ‘Popular’ Stories. Two males.
  The New and the Old. For two males.
  A Sensation at Last. For two males.
  The Greenhorn. For two males.
  The Three Men of Science. For four males.
  The Old Lady’s Will. For four males.
  The Little Philosophers. For two little girls.
  How to Find an Heir. For five males.
  The Virtues. For six young ladies.
  A Connubial Eclogue.
  The Public meeting. Five males and one female.
  The English Traveler. For two males.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 3.

  The May Queen. For an entire school.
  Dress Reform Convention. For ten females.
  Keeping Bad Company. A Farce. For five males.
  Courting Under Difficulties. 2 males, 1 female.
  National Representatives. A Burlesque. 4 males.
  Escaping the Draft. For numerous males.
  The Genteel Cook. For two males.
  Masterpiece. For two males and two females.
  The Two Romans. For two males.
  The Same. Second scene. For two males.
  Showing the White Feather. 4 males, 1 female.
  The Battle Call. A Recitative. For one male.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 4.

  The Frost King. For ten or more persons.
  Starting in Life. Three males and two females.
  Faith, Hope and Charity. For three little girls.
  Darby and Joan. For two males and one female.
  The May. A Floral Fancy. For six little girls.
  The Enchanted Princess. 2 male, several females.
  Honor to Whom Honor is Due. 7 males, 1 female.
  The Gentle Client. For several males, one female.
  Phrenology. A Discussion. For twenty males.
  The Stubbletown Volunteer. 2 males, 1 female.
  A Scene from “Paul Pry.” For four males.
  The Charms. For three males and one female.
  Bee, Clock and Broom. For three little girls.
  The Right Way. A Colloquy. For two boys.
  What the Ledger Says. For two males.
  The Crimes of Dress. A Colloquy. For two boys.
  The Reward of Benevolence. For four males.
  The Letter. For two males.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 5.

  The Three Guesses. For school or parlor.
  Sentiment. A “Three Persons’” Farce.
  Behind the Curtain. For males and females.
  The Eta Pi Society. Five boys and a teacher.
  Examination Day. For several female characters.
  Trading in “Traps.” For several males.
  The School Boys’ Tribunal. For ten boys.
  A Loose Tongue. Several males and females.
  How Not to Get an Answer. For two females.
  Putting on Airs. A Colloquy. For two males.
  The Straight Mark. For several boys.
  Two ideas of Life. A Colloquy. For ten girls.
  Extract from Marino Faliero.
  Ma-try-Money. An Acting Charade.
  The Six Virtues. For six young ladies.
  The Irishman at Home. For two males.
  Fashionable Requirements. For three girls.
  A Bevy of I’s (Eyes). For eight or less little girls.


                         DIME DIALOGUES, NO. 6.

  The Way They Kept a Secret. Male and females.
  The Poet under Difficulties. For five males.
  William Tell. For a whole school.
  Woman’s Rights. Seven females and two males.
  All is not Gold that Glitters. Male and females.
  The Generous Jew. For six males.
  Shopping. For three males and one female.
  The Two Counselors. For three males.
  The Votaries of Folly. For a number of females.
  Aunt Betsy’s Beaux. Four females and two males.
  The Libel Suit. For two females and one male.
  Santa Claus. For a number of boys.
  Christmas Fairies. For several little girls.
  The Three Rings. For two males.


                     DIME DIALECT SPEAKER, No. 23.

  Dat’s wat’s de matter,
  The Mississippi miracle,
  Ven te tide cooms in,
  Dose lams vot Mary haf got
  Pat O’Flaherty on woman’s rights,
  The home rulers, how they “spakes,”
  Hezekiah Dawson on Mothers-in-law,
  He didn’t sell the farm,
  The true story of Franklin’s kite,
  I would I were a boy again,
  A pathetic story,
  All about a bee,
  Scandal,
  A dark side view,
  Te pesser vay,
  On learning German,
  Mary’s shmall vite lamb,
  A healthy discourse,
  Tobias so to speak,
  Old Mrs. Grimes,
  A parody,
  Mars and cats,
  Bill Underwood, pilot,
  Old Granley,
  The pill peddler’s oration,
  Widder Green’s last words,
  Latest Chinese outrage,
  The manifest destiny of the Irishman,
  Peggy McCann,
  Sprays from Josh Billings,
  De circumstances ob de sitiwation,
  Dar’s nuffin new under de sun,
  A Negro religious poem,
  That violin,
  Picnic delights,
  Our candidate’s views,
  Dundreary’s wisdom,
  Plain language by truthful Jane,
  My neighbor’s dogs,
  Condensed Mythology
    Pictus,
    The Nereides,
    Legends of Attica,
  The stove-pipe tragedy,
  A doketor’s drubbles,
  The coming man,
  The illigant affair at Muldoon’s,
  That little baby round the corner,
  A genewine inference,
  An invitation to the bird of liberty,
  The crow,
  Out west.


                         DIME DIALOGUES No. 26.

  Poor cousins. Three ladles and two gentlemen.
  Mountains and mole-hills. Six ladies and several spectators.
  A test that did not fail. Six boys.
  Two ways of seeing things. Two little girls.
  Don’t count your chickens before they are hatched. Four ladies and a
              boy.
  All is fair in love and war. 3 ladies, 2 gentlemen.
  How uncle Josh got rid of the legacy. Two males, with several
              transformations.
  The lesson of mercy. Two very small girls.
  Practice what you preach. Four ladies.
  Politician. Numerous characters.
  The canvassing agent. Two males and two females.
  Grub. Two males.
  A slight scare. Three females and one male.
  Embodied sunshine. Three young ladies.
  How Jim Peters died. Two males.


                         DIME DIALOGUES No. 27.

  Patsey O’Dowd’s campaign. For three males and one female.
  Hasty inferences not always just. Numerous boys.
  Discontented Annie. For several girls.
  A double surprise. Four males and one female.
  What was it? For five ladies.
  What will cure them? For a lady and two boys.
  Independent. For numerous characters.
  Each season the best. For four boys.
  Tried and found wanting. For several males.
  A boy’s plot. For several characters.
  The street girl’s good angel. For two ladies and two little girls.
  “That ungrateful little nigger.” For two males.
  If I had the money. For three little girls.
  Appearances are deceitful. For several ladies and one gentleman.
  Love’s protest. For two little girls.
  An enforced cure. For several characters.
  Those who preach and those who perform. For three males.
  A gentle conquest. For two young girls.


                         DIME DIALOGUES No. 28.

  A test that told. For six young ladies and two gentlemen.
  Organizing a debating society. For four boys.
  The awakening. For four little girls.
  The rebuke proper. For 3 gentlemen, 2 ladies.
  Exorcising an evil spirit. For six ladies.
  Both sides of the fence. For four males.
  The spirits of the wood. For two troupes of girls.
  No room for the drone. For three little boys.
  Arm-chair. For numerous characters.
  Measure for measure. For four girls.
  Saved by a dream. For two males and two females.
  An infallible sign. For four boys.
  A good use for money. For six little girls.
  An agreeable profession. For several characters.

☞ The above books are sold by Newsdealers everywhere, or will be sent,
post-paid, to any address, on receipt of price, 10 cents each.




                          DIME POCKET NOVELS.
               PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY, AT TEN CENTS EACH.


  1 Hawkeye Harry.
  2 Dead Shot.
  3 The Boy Miners.
  4 Blue Dick.
  5 Nat Wolfe.
  6 The White Tracker.
  7 The Outlaw’s Wife.
  8 The Tall Trapper.
  9 Lightning Jo.
  10 The Island Pirate.
  11 The Boy Ranger.
  12 Bess, the Trapper.
  13 The French Spy.
  14 Long Shot.
  15 The Gunmaker.
  16 Red Hand.
  17 Ben, the Trapper.
  18 Wild Raven.
  19 The Specter Chief.
  20 The B’ar-Killer.
  21 Wild Nat.
  22 Indian Jo.
  23 Old Kent, the Ranger.
  24 The One-Eyed Trapper.
  25 Godbold, the Spy.
  26 The Black Ship.
  27 Single Eye.
  28 Indian Jim.
  29 The Scout.
  30 Eagle Eye.
  31 The Mystic Canoe.
  32 The Golden Harpoon.
  33 The Scalp King.
  34 Old Lute.
  35 Rainbolt, Ranger.
  36 The Boy Pioneer.
  37 Carson, The Guide.
  38 The Heart Eater.
  39 Wetzel, the Scout.
  40 The Huge Hunter.
  41 Wild Nat, the Trapper.
  42 Lynx-cap.
  43 The White Outlaw.
  44 The Dog Trailer.
  45 The Elk King.
  46 Adrian, the Pilot.
  47 The Man-hunter.
  48 The Phantom Tracker.
  49 Moccasin Bill.
  50 The Wolf Queen.
  51 Tom Hawk, Trailer.
  52 The Mad Chief.
  53 The Black Wolf.
  54 Arkansas Jack.
  55 Blackbeard.
  56 The River Rifles.
  57 Hunter Ham.
  58 Cloudwood.
  59 The Texas Hawks.
  60 Merciless Mat.
  61 Mad Anthony’s Scouts.
  62 The Luckless Trapper.
  63 The Florida Scout.
  64 The Island Trapper.
  65 Wolf-Cap.
  66 Rattling Dick.
  67 Sharp-Eye.
  68 Iron-Hand.
  69 The Yellow Hunter.
  70 The Phantom Rider.
  71 Delaware Tom.
  72 Silver Rifle.
  73 The Skeleton Scout.
  74 Little Rifle.
  75 The Wood Witch.
  76 Old Ruff, the Trapper.
  77 The Scarlet Shoulders.
  78 The Border Rifleman.
  79 Outlaw Jack.
  80 Tiger-Tail, Seminole.
  81 Death-Dealer.
  82 Kenton, the Ranger.
  83 The Specter Horseman.
  84 The Three Trappers.
  85 Kaleolah.
  86 The Hunter Hercules.
  87 Phil Hunter.
  88 The Indian Scout.
  89 The Girl Avenger.
  90 The Red Hermitess.
  91 Star-Face, the Slayer.
  92 The Antelope Boy.
  93 The Phantom Hunter.
  94 Tom Pintle, the Pilot.
  95 The Red Wizard.
  96 The Rival Trappers.
  97 The Squaw Spy.
  98 Dusky Dick.
  99 Colonel Crockett.
  100 Old Bear Paw.
  101 Redlaw.
  102 Wild Rube.
  103 The Indian Hunters.
  104 Scarred Eagle.
  105 Nick Doyle.
  106 The Indian Spy.
  107 Job Dean.
  108 The Wood King.
  109 The Scalped Hunter.
  110 Nick, the Scout.
  111 The Texas Tiger.
  112 The Crossed Knives.
  113 Tiger-Heart.
  114 The Masked Avenger.
  115 The Pearl Pirates.
  116 Black Panther.
  117 Abdiel, the Avenger.
  118 Cato, the Creeper.
  119 Two-Handed Mat.
  120 Mad Trail Hunter.
  121 Black Nick.
  122 Kit Bird.
  123 The Specter Riders.
  124 Giant Pete.
  125 The Girl Captain.
  126 Yankee Eph.
  127 Silverspur.
  128 Squatter Dick.
  129 The Child Spy.
  130 Mink Coat.
  131 Red Plume.
  132 Clyde, the Trailer.
  133 The Lost Cache.
  134 The Cannibal Chief.
  135 Karaibo.
  136 Scarlet Moccasin.
  137 Kidnapped.
  138 Maid of the Mountain.
  139 The Scioto Scouts.
  140 Border Renegade.
  141 The Mute Chief.
  142 Boone, the Hunter.
  143 Mountain Kate.
  144 The Red Scalper.
  145 The Lone Chief.
  146 The Silver Bugle.
  147 Chinga, the Cheyenne.
  148 The Tangled Trail.
  149 The Unseen Hand.
  150 The Lone Indian.
  151 The Branded Brave.
  152 Billy Bowlegs.
  153 The Valley Scout.
  154 Red Jacket.
  155 The Jungle Scout.
  156 Cherokee Chief.
  157 The Bandit Hermit.
  158 The Patriot Scouts.
  159 The Wood Rangers.
  160 The Red Foe.
  161 Beautiful Unknown.
  162 Canebrake Mose.
  163 Hank, the Guide.
  164 The Border Scout.
  165 Wild Nat.
  166 Maid of Wyoming.
  167 The Three Captives.
  168 The Lost Hunter.
  169 Border Law.
  170 The Lifted Trail.
  171 The Trader Spy.
  172 The Forest Specter.
  173 The Border Foes.
  174 Border Vengeance.
  175 Border Bessie.
  176 The Sons of Liberty.
  177 The Lost Bride.
  178 Keetsea.
  179 The Tonkawa Spy.
  180 The Prairie Scourge.
  181 Red Lightning. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready May 31st.
  182 Brave Heart. By James L. Bowen. Ready June 14th.
  183 Night-Hawk Kit. By Joseph E. Badger, Jr., Ready June 28th.
  184 Mustang Sam. By Joseph E. Badger, Jr. Ready July 12th.
  185 Hurricane Bill. By Joseph E. Badger, Jr. Ready July 26th.
  186 The Red Outlaw. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready August 9th.
  187 The Swamp Scout. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready August 23d.
  188 The Shawnee’s Foe. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready September 6th.
  189 Mohawk Nat. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready September 20th.
  190 Old Jupe. By Mrs. Orrin James. Ready October 4th.
  191 The Prairie Rifles. By Henry J. Thomas. Ready October 18th.
  192 Old Kyle, the Trailer. By Henry J. Thomas. Ready Nov. 1st.

       BEADLE AND ADAMS, Publishers, 98 William Street, New York.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Created a Table of Contents based on the chapter headings.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SCARLET SHOULDERS; OR, THE MINER
RANGERS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
