The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cholera and the Water Supply, by John Snow

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Cholera and the Water Supply
       In the south districts of London in 1854

Author: John Snow

Release Date: October 10, 2021 [eBook #66507]

Language: English


Produced by: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHOLERA AND THE WATER SUPPLY ***




                                CHOLERA
                                AND THE
                              WATER SUPPLY
                                 IN THE
                   SOUTH DISTRICTS OF LONDON IN 1854.


                                   BY
                            JOHN SNOW, M.D.


   _Reprinted from the_ JOURNAL OF PUBLIC HEALTH _for October 1856_.


                                LONDON:
             PRINTED BY T. RICHARDS, 37, GT. QUEEN STREET.




In the summer of 1849, I published certain conclusions at which I have
arrived with regard to Asiatic cholera, and the facts and reasonings
which had led to them. The following is a very brief outline of these
views. The cholera commences as an affection of the alimentary canal,
and not with general illness; there is no evidence of poisoning of the
blood in this disease, except in some cases where secondary fever
occurs; there is conclusive evidence that cholera may be communicated
from person to person, and it follows, therefore, that the morbid matter
which produces the disease is applied to the interior of the alimentary
canal, where it increases and multiplies during the period of so-called
incubation, and passes off, during the attack, to cause fresh cases when
suitable opportunities occur. Various circumstances connected with the
propagation of cholera seemed in accordance with the above view of its
pathology. Thus, it was observed to pass frequently from person to
person in the crowded habitations of the poor, who eat, drink, cook, and
sleep in the same apartment, and pay little or no regard to cleanliness,
who live, in fact, under circumstances where the sudden and copious
evacuations of cholera, soiling the bed and body linen, would not fail
to contaminate the hands of the patient and his attendants, and be
thence transferred to any food they might touch. The absence of colour
and odour in the evacuations could not help to favour this result. The
social visitor who came to see the poor patient, or attend his funeral,
frequently suffered, whilst the medical man, and others who partook of
no food in the apartment, and who washed their hands when requisite,
escaped. The mining districts of this country have suffered excessively
from cholera in each epidemic, an event which might be explained by the
following circumstances when taken in connexion with the above view of
the cause of the disease. The miners stay eight or nine hours at a time
in the pits, and take food with them, which they eat invariably with
unwashed hands, and without knife and fork, whilst the pits are without
privies, and are generally extremely foul and dirty. The entire absence
of daylight must also cause the workmen to take much more dirt with
their food than they are aware of. It occurred to me, as soon as I began
to entertain the above opinions, that if the cholera excreta could
reproduce the disease in the way just mentioned, they might also do so
when diffused in water taken as drink, and that unless this were the
case, the whole of the phenomena of cholera, as an epidemic, could not
be explained. I, therefore, sought anxiously, and waited patiently, for
some confirmation of this part of the subject before I should make my
views known. Two outbreaks of cholera occurred, however, about the end
of July 1849, one in Horsleydown, and the other in the Wandsworth Road,
which I investigated, and which afforded what I considered conclusive
evidence on the subject. The water drank by the persons attacked in each
of these outbreaks had received, amongst other impurities, what must
have come from a patient previously ill of the disease. I was able also
to point out that the cholera was prevailing most in those districts of
the metropolis which received their supply of water from certain parts
of the Thames which contained the sewage of the town, and, consequently,
whatever proceeded from the cholera patients. Before the end of 1849 I
was able to show that a very close connexion existed between the
mortality from cholera and the nature of the water supply, not only in
London, but throughout the country. This connexion was very evident in
certain towns, as Exeter and Hull, where the supply of water had been
changed between the epidemic of 1832 and that of 1849. Where a polluted
supply was changed for an unpolluted one, the cholera was almost
prevented; and where a scanty but unpolluted supply had been changed for
one contaminated with the sewage of the town, the epidemic prevailed to
a fearful extent. The attention of Dr. Wm. Budd and Dr. Farr was
directed to this subject, with the result of confirming what I had
stated.

Between the epidemics of 1849 and that of 1853, one of the water
companies supplying the south districts of London changed its source of
supply from the middle of the town, near the foot of the Hungerford
Suspension Bridge, to Thames Ditton, at a part of the river which is
beyond the influence of the tide, and, therefore, out of reach of the
sewage of the metropolis. In the autumn of 1853 it was shown by Dr.
Farr[1] that the districts partly supplied by this, the Lambeth Water
Company, with improved water, suffered less than the districts supplied
entirely by the Southwark and Vauxhall Company with the water from the
river at Battersea Fields, although in 1849 they had suffered rather
more than the latter districts. By showing the water supply in
subdistricts, and thus getting a more correct line of demarcation, I was
able to point out[2] that the advantage in favour of the population
partly supplied with the purer water was even greater than Dr. Farr had
indicated.

I had learnt from the evidence of Mr. Quick in the _Health of Towns
Reports_, that the division of the houses, between the Lambeth Company
on the one hand, and the Southwark and Vauxhall Company on the other,
was not such as obtains in the north districts of London, where a parish
is often divided between two water companies, but where one company
always leaves off at the point at which the other begins. Throughout the
greater part of Lambeth and Southwark, the whole of Newington, and a
part of Camberwell, however, the supply of the two companies above
mentioned is actually intermixed, the pipes of both companies going down
the same streets, in consequence of the active competition which once
existed between three water companies, two of which have since
amalgamated and come to an agreement with the other—the Lambeth company.
Observing, therefore, when the cholera returned in 1854, that there was
the same advantage in favour of the districts partly supplied with water
from Thames Ditton, I determined to make an inquiry, the idea of which I
had previously entertained. It was obvious that, if the diminished
mortality depended on the improved supply of water, the benefit of the
whole diminution would be enjoyed by the inhabitants of houses having
this supply, whilst the population receiving impure water would suffer
as much as that of the districts which received the same water, and no
other. This point could be determined by ascertaining the water supply
of every house in which a fatal attack of cholera might occur. After
commencing the inquiry I found that the circumstances were calculated
for affording even more conclusive evidence than I had anticipated. The
pipes of the two water companies not only passed down all the streets,
but into nearly all the courts and alleys. A single house often had a
different supply from that on either side. Each water company supplied
alike both rich and poor, and thus there was a population of 300,000
persons, of various conditions and occupations, intimately mixed
together, and divided into two groups by no other circumstance than the
difference of water supply. One group supplied with water contaminated,
to a large extent, with the sewage of London, and the other receiving a
supply altogether free from such impurity.

I took great care to ascertain the nature of the water supply correctly
in every instance. I did not rest content with the mere reply of the
resident, or the appearance of the water, without other evidence, such
as the production of the receipt for the water rate. I was also assisted
very much by the application of a chemical test to the water, for
throughout all the dry weather, which lasted whilst my inquiries were
being made, a mixture of sea water extended further up the Thames than
usual, and the water of the Southwark and Vauxhall Company contained
nearly forty grains of common salt per gallon, whilst that of the
Lambeth Company contained only ·95 of a grain. These analyses were
verified in numerous cases where the source of the water could be proved
clearly by other evidence. For the first four weeks of the epidemic I
employed the list of deaths from cholera published in the Weekly Returns
of the Registrar-General, and for the next three weeks, during which my
inquiry extended, I was kindly permitted to copy the addresses of
persons dying of cholera at the General Register Office. My personal
inquiry extended over every subdistrict to which the supply of the
Lambeth Water Company extended, and it, therefore, included all the area
in which the supply of the two companies was intermixed in the manner
explained above.

At the time I was making my inquiry, the entire number of houses
supplied by each water company was known, from a return made to
Parliament, but the number of houses supplied in each district and
subdistrict by each company respectively was not known. In order,
therefore, to see the exact bearing of my results, I found it desirable
to extend the inquiry over the districts supplied exclusively by the
Southwark and Vauxhall Company; for this purpose I obtained the
assistance of Mr. Whiting, a medical man, who took great pains with his
part of the inquiry, which was merely to ascertain whether the houses in
which fatal attacks had taken place were supplied by the Southwark
Company, or from some other source, as a pump well or tidal ditch. His
inquiry extended over the first four weeks of the epidemic.

I gave a copy of the first results of my inquiry to Dr. Farr, to whom I
was indebted for facilities very kindly afforded: and Dr. Farr being
much struck with these results, instituted a continuance of the inquiry
through the district registrars, who were requested to make a return of
the supply of water to each house in which a fatal attack of cholera
might occur in all the south districts of London. As the registrars
could not be expected to make a chemical analysis of the water, or to
seek out the landlord or agent in cases where the tenant was not
acquainted with the water supply, the question remained unanswered in a
considerable number of instances, but the return was obtained for more
than three-fourths of the deaths, and shows, no doubt, the correct
proportion. Dr. Farr’s inquiry commenced from the 27th of August, and
extended to the close of the epidemic; and as my inquiry extended to
August 26th, the water supply was obtained for the whole epidemic of
1854. It was only necessary to make a computation of the small number of
attacks occurring in houses supplied by pump wells or some other source,
in the three weeks—the 5th to the 7th inclusive—of the epidemic, in
Bermondsey and the other districts which do not receive the Lambeth
water. This computation was made according to the result ascertained in
the previous four weeks, and must approach very nearly to the truth.

In treating of the general results of this inquiry, it is desirable to
divide the epidemic into different periods, as the influence of the
water supply was found to diminish in relative intensity as the epidemic
progressed. In the first four weeks of the epidemic of 1854, that is,
from July 9th to August 5th inclusive, there were 334 deaths from
cholera in the districts to which the supply of the two water companies
we are considering extends. The water supply in every one of these
instances was made a matter of personal inquiry, and the result of each
case was published by me in detail in the Appendix to a work on Cholera.
In 286 instances the supply of the house in which the attack took place
was that of the Southwark and Vauxhall Company; in 14 instances it was
that of the Lambeth Company; in 4 cases the supply was from a pump well;
in 26 cases the water was drawn direct from the river, or a canal, or a
tidal ditch; and in 4 cases the supply could not be ascertained, owing
to the address of the deceased persons, prior to the fatal attack, not
being known. The number of houses supplied by the Southwark and Vauxhall
Company was 40,046, having a population estimated by the
Registrar-General[3] at 266,516, and the number of houses supplied by
the Lambeth Company was 26,107, with an estimated population of 173,748;
the mortality from cholera was, therefore, at the rate of 107 to each
100,000 inhabitants supplied by the former company, and 8 to each
100,000 supplied by the latter; in other words, the disease was between
thirteen and fourteen times as fatal to the population having the impure
water as to that having the improved supply. It is particularly worthy
of remark that, during the four weeks of the epidemic we are now
considering, there were but 563 deaths from cholera in the whole
metropolis, of which 286, or more than one-half, occurred amongst the
customers of the Southwark and Vauxhall Company, who comprise a little
more than one-tenth of London, and a considerable number of the
remaining deaths took place amongst mariners, and others employed
amongst the shipping, who almost invariably draw their drinking water
directly from the river; it is, therefore, evident that at this early
period of the epidemic the impure water of the Thames was almost the
exclusive means of the propagation of the malady.

In the next three weeks of the epidemic there were 1,180 deaths from
cholera in the districts supplied by the two water companies. Of these,
the fatal attack took place in 977 cases in houses supplied by the
Southwark and Vauxhall Company; in 84 cases in houses supplied by the
Lambeth company; in 101 instances the supply was from some other source;
and in 18 cases it could not be ascertained, for reasons previously
stated. Taking into account the population supplied respectively by each
company, the mortality was, at this period of the epidemic, nearly eight
times as great in that supplied by the Southwark and Vauxhall Company as
in that supplied by the Lambeth Company.

During the last ten weeks of the epidemic, from August 27th to November
4th inclusive, 3,564 deaths occurred in the districts to which the
supply of the two water companies extends, and the returns of the
district registrars showed that in 2,443 cases the water supply of the
house in which the fatal attack took place was that of the Southwark and
Vauxhall Company; in 313 cases it was that of the Lambeth Company; in
207 instances the supply was from pump wells and other sources
independent of the two water companies, and in 601 instances the supply
was not ascertained.[4] These numbers show a mortality of 916 to each
100,000 inhabitants supplied by the Southwark and Vauxhall Company, and
180 to each 100,000 supplied by the Lambeth Company; consequently, at
this period of the epidemic, the mortality was still more than five
times as great amongst the population supplied by the former company as
amongst that supplied by the latter.

The results of my inquiry into the supply of water were, of course,
obtained separately for each district and subdistrict in which the
inquiry was made, and were so published; but I was unable at the time to
show the relation between the supply of houses in which fatal attacks
took place, and the entire supply of each district and subdistrict, on
account of the latter circumstance not being known. I expressed myself
as follows in an article which I published soon after my inquiry was
made: “I hope shortly to learn the number of houses in each subdistrict
supplied by each of the water companies respectively, when the effect of
the impure water in propagating cholera will be shown in a very striking
manner, and with great detail.”[5] This information did not, however,
come within my reach till recently, and not even then with all the
accuracy I could desire. In the Report on the Cholera Epidemics of
London as affected by the Consumption of Impure Water, lately written by
Mr. Simon, and published by the General Board of Health, there is a
statement of the number of houses supplied by each of the water
companies respectively in each district and subdistrict. The line has
not been very accurately drawn where a street, as often happens, is
partly in one district and partly in another; and thus, in the recent
Report, the subdistricts of St. Saviour’s, Southwark, Leather Market,
Bermondsey, Battersea, and Peckham, have been represented to contain a
few houses supplied by the Lambeth Company, although they do not contain
any. With regard to Bermondsey, it is stated in a foot note that some
ends of streets may have been included which have passed the
registration boundary, and this has happened in other cases; but the
errors arising from this cause are limited in amount, and cannot much
affect the statistical calculations that I have made. There is also a
further imperfection in the account of the water supply of the
subdistricts. The numbers which are stated to represent the houses
supplied by each water company in each subdistrict are found on adding
up the tables not to do so, but to represent the number of houses, minus
those situated in streets in which no death occurred; the latter being
placed all together at the end of each group of subdistricts which
constitutes a district. Streets vary in size from one or two houses to
two or three hundred, and the small streets would obviously be the most
likely to be exempt from mortality; it could, therefore, do little good
to distinguish such streets; however, if thought desirable, this could
as well have been done by simply stating the number of the houses,
without deducting them from the gross number in each subdistrict. The
number of houses in these exempted streets is about one-ninth of the
whole. Instead of being able to compare, as I could wish, the mortality
in the houses supplied by each company with the exact number of houses
supplied, I have only been able to compare it with the number of houses
in the streets in which deaths occurred. This will necessarily raise the
proportion of deaths about one-ninth; but there is every reason to
believe that the relative proportion of deaths in the population
supplied by the two companies respectively, which is the real object of
the inquiry, will remain almost unaltered.

As the first four weeks of the epidemic did not furnish a sufficient
number of cases in all the subdistricts to serve for a statistical
inquiry in detail, I have commenced by taking the first seven weeks of
the epidemic collectively; and the first of the tables which accompanies
this paper exhibits the results of my personal inquiry, when placed in
connexion with the number of persons and houses supplied in each
subdistrict by each water company respectively.[6] The reader will
observe from the last division of the table that the proportion of
deaths was, in every subdistrict, very much greater amongst the
population supplied by the Southwark and Vauxhall Company than amongst
that supplied by the Lambeth Company, and that the relative mortality is
nearly the same throughout, except in two or three instances, where
there were but one or two deaths for the basis of calculation amongst
the customers of the Lambeth Company. The second table shows the results
of that part of the inquiry conducted by Mr. Whiting, treated in a
similar manner. In the subdistricts here enumerated, which were
supplied, except just on the border of three of them, exclusively by the
Southwark and Vauxhall Company, the mortality will be observed to be
nearly the same, only a little higher, than amongst the population
supplied by the same company, and mixed with that supplied by the
Lambeth Company, as shown in the previous table. In the third table the
figures contained in the two first are collected into a more compact
form, to show the result of the inquiry during the first part of the
epidemic, arranged in districts. The fourth table contains the results
of that part of the inquiry made by Dr. Farr, when compared with the
population supplied by each water company respectively. It is
necessarily arranged in districts—for the results were so published in
the Weekly Returns[7]—and not in subdistricts. The mortality during the
last ten weeks of the epidemic was greater than during the first seven
weeks, but the reader will observe that a very great disproportion
continues in every district between the mortality of the population
supplied by one company and that supplied by the other. There is no
district to which the supply of both companies extends in which the
mortality is not more than three times as great amongst the persons
supplied by the Southwark Company as amongst those supplied by the
Lambeth Company, and the general result shows a proportion of ninety-one
to eighteen, or more than five to one, as was stated before.

In the fifth table the numbers in the previous ones are added together,
and fresh calculations made, so as to show the result of the inquiry for
the whole epidemic. The instances in which the water supply was not
specified, or not ascertained, in the returns made by the district
registrars must evidently nearly all have been cases in which the house
was supplied by one or other of the water companies, for, if the persons
received no such supply, and obtained water from a pump well, canal, or
ditch, there could be no difficulty in knowing the fact. Moreover, as
the two water companies are guided by precisely the same regulations,
the difficulty in ascertaining the supply is exactly the same with
regard to one as the other; I, therefore, concluded that I could not be
wrong in dividing the non-ascertained cases between the two companies in
the same proportion as those which were ascertained, and I have done so
at the foot of table V, in order to obtain a complete view of the
influence of the water supply during the whole epidemic of 1854. These
general results I have employed as the basis of some further
calculations.

In table VI I have copied from the Weekly Returns of the
Registrar-General the mortality from cholera in every subdistrict to
which the supply of both, or either, of the water companies extends. I
have also calculated the number of deaths which would have taken place
in each subdistrict according to the number of persons supplied with
water by each company respectively, and in accordance with the mortality
ascertained for the whole of the population supplied; and it will be
observed that the calculated mortality bears a very close relation to
the real mortality in each subdistrict. This relation exists with regard
both to the gross mortality and to the mortality to each 10,000 living,
all through the table, and proves the overwhelming influence which the
nature of the water supply exerted over the mortality, overbearing every
other circumstance which could be expected to affect the progress of the
epidemic. Thus, in the crowded, dirty, and very poor subdistricts of
Lambeth Church, first part, and Waterloo, first part, lying by the river
side, the mortality was low in consequence of the water supply being
chiefly that of the Lambeth Company; whilst in the thinly peopled, and
comparatively genteel subdistricts of Clapham and Battersea the
mortality was very high, in consequence of the impure water of the
Southwark and Vauxhall Company. Taking this inquiry altogether, and
considering that the results which were published two years ago, and
could only be estimated collectively, are now corroborated in detail
through upwards of thirty subdistricts, it probably supplies a greater
amount of statistical evidence than was ever brought to bear on a
medical subject.

At the latter part of 1854, the General Board of Health procured from
the two water companies, by order of the Secretary of State, a list of
all the houses which they supplied, which lists are very valuable, as
affording the means of ascertaining the exact water supply of each
district and subdistrict separately. By direction of the Scientific
Committee of the Board of Health, the lists have been employed in making
a supplemental inquiry into the effect of the water supply on cholera.
For this purpose they were compared with the lists of deaths at the
General Registrar Office, and the results have been embodied in the
recent Report of Mr. Simon, previously referred to. There are, however,
certain circumstances, which were probably unknown to the Scientific
Committee, and which render it impossible that an inquiry, conducted in
this manner, could do more than approximate to the truth; and show why
it can bear no comparison in point of accuracy to a personal inquiry,
made on the spot, at the time of the epidemic. In the first place,
throughout the greater part of Lambeth, Newington, and the Borough, the
houses are either without numbers, or numbered very irregularly, and the
numbers are liable to frequent change, as new houses are built, or older
ones repainted; there are also frequently repetitions of the same number
in the same street, and although, in some instances, the companies have
returned the names of the occupiers, that can be of no assistance in the
case of the poor, who occupy but one or two rooms, and form the greater
bulk of the population. In the next place, the poor often furnish,
unintentionally, a wrong number to the registrar, even when the houses
are regularly numbered. They know their own homes perfectly, but, having
no occasion to refer to the number, they partially forget it; and, in
the greater number of my personal inquiries, I had to call at two or
three houses before I found the one in which the death occurred. For
these reasons it follows that, in comparing the lists of the water
supply with the lists of deaths, many errors must have occurred; and as
the deaths were six times as numerous in the houses supplied by the
Southwark and Vauxhall Company as in those supplied by the Lambeth
Company, the evident result would be that out of every six mistakes five
would transfer a death from the former company to the latter, and only
one would transfer a death from the latter company to the former.
Another source of error, but operating to a less extent, is, that a
number of persons who were attacked with cholera in houses supplied by
the Southwark Company died in the workhouses of St. Saviour’s, Lambeth,
and Newington, which were supplied by the Lambeth Company. It need
excite no surprise, therefore, that the supplemental inquiry, embodied
in the recent Report, instead of showing a mortality of 160 and 27 for
the population supplied by the two water companies, or a difference of 6
to 1, showed a mortality of 125 and 37 per 10,000, or a difference of
only 3½ to 1. It must be obvious, however, independently of the above
facts, that a difference of three and a-half to one would not explain
the great difference in the mortality of the various districts and
subdistricts. The epidemic of 1853 is included with that of 1854 in Mr.
Simon’s Report; but as there were but few deaths in 1853, and those
chiefly amongst the population supplied by the Southwark Company, this
circumstance would not much affect his results.

It is probable that, when the facts brought to light by this inquiry are
sufficiently known, no one will deny the influence of impure water in
promoting the mortality of cholera; but it must not be supposed that it
is mere impurity of an ordinary kind that causes the disease, for there
are innumerable facts to prove that ordinary impurities have no such
effect, and that it is only when the specific morbid matter of the
disease gains access to the water that cholera is propagated. Thousands
of people drank water from their own neglected cisterns, during the late
epidemic, as impure as that of the Southwark and Vauxhall Company,
without ill effect. An inquiry made by the vestry of St. James’,
Westminster,[8] proved that the contents of a cesspool had been
percolating for months through the three feet of earth which separated
it from the pump well in Broad Street; but although hundreds of people
were daily drinking the water, and cholera was extending fearfully in
many parts of London, only a few scattered cases occurred in the streets
near the pump till the end of August, when, a case having happened
amongst the persons using the privy connected with the cesspool above
mentioned, more than five hundred persons were attacked within two or
three days.

In the cases in which the cholera poison gains access to a limited
supply of drinking water, such as a tank or pumpwell, the outbreak it
occasions is always sudden, violent, and limited; but when a river is
the medium of the propagation of the disease, its progress is more
gradual and extended, being diffused amongst the whole population using
the water.

It is hardly necessary to remark, that every circumstance which proves
the communication of cholera through the medium of water, corroborates
the views, explained at the beginning of this paper, regarding its
propagation in the crowded houses of the poor; for it cannot be supposed
that a morbid matter, which can produce its specific effects after being
diffused and distributed through a quantity of water, could fail to act
in an undiluted state.

It was my intention to make some remarks on the drainage and water
supply of towns, but this communication has already exceeded the limits
which I prescribed for it.




                                TABLE I.
  _Shewing the results of the Author’s personal Inquiry in Twenty-One
                            Sub-Districts._


 ┌────────────┬──────────────┬─────────┬──────────┬──────────╥
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │Number of│          │Estimated ║
 │Registration│ Registration │inhabited│Population│ constant ║
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.│houses in│ in 1851. │population║
 │            │              │  1851.  │          │per house.║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │              │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│1.            │    1,887│    16,022│       8·5║
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch│         │          │          ║
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  │    2,558│    18,126│       7·1║
 │  Southw.   │              │         │          │          ║
 │            │2. Borough    │    2,069│    15,862│       7·7║
 │            │  Road        │         │          │          ║
 │            │3. London Road│    2,365│    17,836│       7·5║
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    │    3,224│    20,922│       6·5║
 │            │2. St. Peter, │    4,925│    29,861│       6·1║
 │            │  Walworth    │         │          │          ║
 │            │3. St. Mary   │    2,309│    14,033│       6·1║
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  │    1,729│    14,088│       8·1║
 │            │  part 1      │         │          │          ║
 │            │2. Waterloo,  │    2,191│    18,348│       8·4║
 │            │  part 2      │         │          │          ║
 │            │3. Lambeth    │         │          │          ║
 │            │  church, pt. │    2,451│    18,409│       7·5║
 │            │  1           │         │          │          ║
 │            │4. Lambeth    │         │          │          ║
 │            │  church, pt. │    3,849│    26,784│       7·0║
 │            │  2           │         │          │          ║
 │            │5. Kennington,│    3,977│    24,261│       6·1║
 │            │  part 1      │         │          │          ║
 │            │6. Kennington,│    3,288│    18,848│       5·7║
 │            │  part 2      │         │          │          ║
 │            │7. Brixton    │    2,362│    14,610│       6·1║
 │            │8. Norwood    │      600│     3,977│       6·6║
 │Wandsworth  │3. Wandsworth │    1,522│     9,611│       6·3║
 │            │4. Putney     │      918│     5,280│       5·7║
 │            │5. Streatham  │    1,419│     9,023│       6·4║
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    │      259│     1,632│       6·3║
 │            │4. St. George │    2,845│    15,849│       5·6║
 │Lewisham    │5. Sydenham   │      801│     4,501│       5·6║
 ├────────────┴──────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │          Totals           │   47,548│   317,883│       6·6║
 └───────────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────╨

 ┌────────────┬──────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────╥
 │            │              ║                                       ║
 │            │              ║                                       ║
 │            │              ║“Number of houses, and estimated number║
 │Registration│ Registration ║of persons, supplied in 1854 with water║
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.║              as under.”               ║
 │            │              ║                                       ║
 │            │              ║                                       ║
 │            │              ║                                       ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫───────────────────┬───────────────────╫
 │            │              ║                   │                   ║
 │            │              ║ By Southwark and  │  By the Lambeth   ║
 │            │              ║   Vauxhall Co.    │     Company.      ║
 │            │              ║                   │                   ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫───────┬───────────┼───────┬───────────╫
 │            │              ║No. of │  Estim.   │No. of │  Estim.   ║
 │            │              ║houses.│Population.│houses.│Population.║
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│1.            ║    343│      2,915│  1,557│     13,234║
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch║       │           │       │           ║
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  ║  1,779│     12,630│    563│      3,997║
 │  Southw.   │              ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │2. Borough    ║  1,176│      8,937│    878│      6,672║
 │            │  Road        ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │3. London Road║    383│      2,872│  1,533│     11,497║
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    ║  1,661│     10,132│  1,372│      8,370║
 │            │2. St. Peter, ║  2,340│     14,274│  1,758│     10,724║
 │            │  Walworth    ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │3. St. Mary   ║    489│      2,983│    899│      5,484║
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  ║    438│      3,548│  1,474│     11,939║
 │            │  part 1      ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │2. Waterloo,  ║    864│      7,171│  1,510│     12,533║
 │            │  part 2      ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │3. Lambeth    ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │  church, pt. ║    415│      3,113│  2,117│     15,878║
 │            │  1           ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │4. Lambeth    ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │  church, pt. ║  1,124│      7,868│  2,289│     16,023║
 │            │  2           ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │5. Kennington,║  2,586│     15,775│    444│      2,708║
 │            │  part 1      ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │6. Kennington,║  1,206│      7,874│    986│      5,620║
 │            │  part 2      ║       │           │       │           ║
 │            │7. Brixton    ║    310│      1,922│  1,509│      9,356║
 │            │8. Norwood    ║      0│          0│    160│      1,066║
 │Wandsworth  │3. Wandsworth ║    144│        907│     15│         94║
 │            │4. Putney     ║     13│         74│      0│          0║
 │            │5. Streatham  ║      0│          0│    515│      3,244║
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    ║      0│          0│      4│         25║
 │            │4. St. George ║    767│      4,295│    971│      5,437║
 │Lewisham    │5. Sydenham   ║      0│          0│ unkno.│     unkno.║
 ├────────────┴──────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │          Totals           ║ 16,038│    107,290│ 20,554│    143,901║
 └───────────────────────────╨───────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────╨

 ┌────────────┬──────────────╥──────────────────────────────────────────────────┬
 │            │              ║                                                  │
 │            │              ║                                                  │
 │            │              ║Water supply of the houses in which fatal attacks │
 │Registration│ Registration ║of cholera took place during first seven weeks of │
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.║                epidemic of 1854.                 │
 │            │              ║                                                  │
 │            │              ║                                                  │
 │            │              ║                                                  │
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫─────────┬───────┬────────┬──────────┬────────────┼
 │            │              ║Southwark│       │Thames, │          │            │
 │            │              ║   and   │Lambeth│canals, │   From   │ Supply not │
 │            │              ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │   or   │pumpwells.│ascertained.│
 │            │              ║   Co.   │       │ditches.│          │            │
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │            │              ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │              ║         │       │        │          │            │
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │St. Saviour,│1.            ║       11│     13│       0│         0│           1│
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch║         │       │        │          │            │
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  ║       52│      5│       0│         0│           0│
 │  Southw.   │              ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │2. Borough    ║       61│      7│       0│         0│           3│
 │            │  Road        ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │3. London Road║       21│      8│       0│         0│           0│
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    ║       52│      6│       0│         0│           0│
 │            │2. St. Peter, ║       84│      4│       0│         0│           2│
 │            │  Walworth    ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │3. St. Mary   ║       19│      1│       0│         1│           0│
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  ║        9│      1│       0│         0│           0│
 │            │  part 1      ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │2. Waterloo,  ║       25│      8│       2│         1│           0│
 │            │  part 2      ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │3. Lambeth    ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │  church, pt. ║        6│      9│       1│         0│           2│
 │            │  1           ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │4. Lambeth    ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │  church, pt. ║       34│     13│       0│         1│           5│
 │            │  2           ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │5. Kennington,║       63│      5│       0│         3│           0│
 │            │  part 1      ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │6. Kennington,║       34│      3│       0│         1│           0│
 │            │  part 2      ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │7. Brixton    ║        5│      2│       0│         0│           2│
 │            │8. Norwood    ║        0│      2│       5│         1│           0│
 │Wandsworth  │3. Wandsworth ║        1│      0│       8│         2│           0│
 │            │4. Putney     ║        0│      0│       0│         1│           0│
 │            │5. Streatham  ║        0│      1│       0│         5│           0│
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    ║        0│      0│       0│         0│           0│
 │            │4. St. George ║       30│      9│       0│         2│           1│
 │Lewisham    │5. Sydenham   ║        0│      1│       0│         2│           1│
 ├────────────┴──────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │          Totals           ║      507│     98│      16│        20│          17│
 └───────────────────────────╨─────────┴───────┴────────┴──────────┴────────────┴

 ┌────────────┬──────────────┬────────╥─────────────────┐
 │            │              │ Deaths ║                 │
 │            │              │  from  ║                 │
 │            │              │cholera ║  Mortality per  │
 │Registration│ Registration │in first║ 10,000 supplied │
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.│7 weeks ║  with water as  │
 │            │              │   of   ║     under.      │
 │            │              │epidemic║                 │
 │            │              │of 1854.║                 │
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼────────╫─────────┬───────┤
 │            │              │        ║Southwark│       │
 │            │              │        ║   and   │Lambeth│
 │            │              │        ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │
 │            │              │        ║   Co.   │       │
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │              │        ║         │       │
 │            │              │        ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │St. Saviour,│1.            │      25║     37·7│    9·9│
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch│        ║         │       │
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  │      57║     41·1│   12·5│
 │  Southw.   │              │        ║         │       │
 │            │2. Borough    │      71║     68·2│   10·4│
 │            │  Road        │        ║         │       │
 │            │3. London Road│      29║     73·1│    6·9│
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    │      58║     51·3│    7·1│
 │            │2. St. Peter, │      90║     58·8│    3·7│
 │            │  Walworth    │        ║         │       │
 │            │3. St. Mary   │      21║     64·5│    1·8│
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  │      10║     25·6│    0·8│
 │            │  part 1      │        ║         │       │
 │            │2. Waterloo,  │      36║     34·8│    6·3│
 │            │  part 2      │        ║         │       │
 │            │3. Lambeth    │        ║         │       │
 │            │  church, pt. │      18║     19·2│    5·6│
 │            │  1           │        ║         │       │
 │            │4. Lambeth    │        ║         │       │
 │            │  church, pt. │      53║     42·9│    8·1│
 │            │  2           │        ║         │       │
 │            │5. Kennington,│      71║     39·9│   18·4│
 │            │  part 1      │        ║         │       │
 │            │6. Kennington,│      38║     43·2│    5·7│
 │            │  part 2      │        ║         │       │
 │            │7. Brixton    │       9║     26·0│    2·1│
 │            │8. Norwood    │       8║         │   18·7│
 │Wandsworth  │3. Wandsworth │      11║     11·0│       │
 │            │4. Putney     │       1║         │       │
 │            │5. Streatham  │       6║         │    3·0│
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    │       0║         │       │
 │            │4. St. George │      42║     69·8│   16·5│
 │Lewisham    │5. Sydenham   │       4║         │       │
 ├────────────┴──────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │          Totals           │     658║     47·2│    6·8│
 └───────────────────────────┴────────╨─────────┴───────┘




                               TABLE II.
   _Shewing the results of the Inquiry made by Mr. Whiting in Eleven
                            Sub-Districts._


 ┌────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┬──────────┬──────────╥
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │Number of│          │Estimated ║
 │Registration│ Registration  │inhabited│Population│ constant ║
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts. │houses in│ in 1851. │population║
 │            │               │  1851.  │          │per house.║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │               │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│2. St. Saviour │    2,713│    10,709│       7·3║
 │  Southw.   │               │         │          │          ║
 │St. Olave,  │1. St. Olave   │      880│     8,015│       9·1║
 │  Southwark │               │         │          │          ║
 │            │2. St. John,   │    1,480│    11,360│       7·7║
 │            │  Horselydown  │         │          │          ║
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James   │    2,863│    18,899│       6·6║
 │            │2. St. Mary    │    1,865│    13,934│       7·5║
 │            │  Magdalen     │         │          │          ║
 │            │3. Leather     │    2,279│    15,295│       6·7║
 │            │  Market       │         │          │          ║
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham     │    2,657│    16,290│       6·1║
 │            │2. Battersea   │    1,760│    10,560│       6·0║
 │Camberwell  │2. Camberwell  │    2,851│    17,742│       6·2║
 │            │3. Peckham     │    3,457│    19,444│       5·6║
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe    │    2,792│    17,805│       6·4║
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │Totals         │   25,597│   169,053│       6·5║
 │            │Totals of Table│   47,548│   317,883│       6·6║
 │            │  I.           │         │          │          ║
 │Houses in streets where no  │         │          │       6·4║
 │  death occurred            │         │          │          ║
 │Not identified              │         │          │       6·6║
 ├────────────┬───────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │Totals of      │         │          │          ║
 │            │  thirty-two   │   73,145│   480,936│       6·0║
 │            │  Sub-districts│         │          │          ║
 └────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────╨

 ┌────────────┬───────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────
 │            │               ║
 │            │               ║
 │            │               ║“Number of houses, and estimated number
 │Registration│ Registration  ║of persons, supplied in 1854 with water
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts. ║              as under.”
 │            │               ║
 │            │               ║
 │            │               ║
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫───────────────────┬───────────────────
 │            │               ║                   │
 │            │               ║ By Southwark and  │  By the Lambeth
 │            │               ║   Vauxhall Co.    │     Company.
 │            │               ║                   │
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫───────┬───────────┼───────┬───────────
 │            │               ║No. of │  Estim.   │No. of │  Estim.
 │            │               ║houses.│Population.│houses.│Population.
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────
 │St. Saviour,│2. St. Saviour ║  2,238│     16,337│    123│        898
 │  Southw.   │               ║       │           │       │
 │St. Olave,  │1. St. Olave   ║    961│      8,745│      0│          0
 │  Southwark │               ║       │           │       │
 │            │2. St. John,   ║  1,170│      9,360│      0│          0
 │            │  Horselydown  ║       │           │       │
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James   ║  3,511│     23,173│    105│        693
 │            │2. St. Mary    ║  2,301│     17,258│      0│          0
 │            │  Magdalen     ║       │           │       │
 │            │3. Leather     ║  2,090│     14,003│    163│      1,092
 │            │  Market       ║       │           │       │
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham     ║  1,106│      6,747│     22│        134
 │            │2. Battersea   ║  1,046│      6,276│     46│        270
 │Camberwell  │2. Camberwell  ║  1,474│      9,139│    103│        639
 │            │3. Peckham     ║    971│      5,438│     70│        392
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe    ║  1,909│     12,218│      0│          0
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────
 │            │Totals         ║ 18,777│    128,694│    632│      4,124
 │            │Totals of Table║ 16,038│    107,290│ 20,554│    143,901
 │            │  I.           ║       │           │       │
 │Houses in streets where no  ║  4,500│     28,929│  3,643│     23,338
 │  death occurred            ║       │           │       │
 │Not identified              ║    411│      2,712│     25│        165
 ├────────────┬───────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────
 │            │Totals of      ║       │           │       │
 │            │  thirty-two   ║ 39,726│    267,625│ 24,854│    171,528
 │            │  Sub-districts║       │           │       │
 └────────────┴───────────────╨───────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────

 ┌────────────┬───────────────╥──────────────────────────────────────────────────┬
 │            │               ║                                                  │
 │            │               ║                                                  │
 │            │               ║Water supply of the houses in which fatal attacks │
 │Registration│ Registration  ║of cholera took place during first seven weeks of │
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts. ║                epidemic of 1854.                 │
 │            │               ║                                                  │
 │            │               ║                                                  │
 │            │               ║                                                  │
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫─────────┬───────┬────────┬──────────┬────────────┼
 │            │               ║Southwark│       │Thames, │          │            │
 │            │               ║   and   │Lambeth│canals, │   From   │ Supply not │
 │            │               ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │   or   │pumpwells.│ascertained.│
 │            │               ║   Co.   │       │ditches.│          │            │
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │            │               ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │               ║         │       │        │          │            │
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │St. Saviour,│2. St. Saviour ║      115│      0│      10│         0│           0│
 │  Southw.   │               ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │St. Olave,  │1. St. Olave   ║       43│      0│       5│         0│           5│
 │  Southwark │               ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │2. St. John,   ║       48│      0│       3│         0│           0│
 │            │  Horselydown  ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James   ║      102│      0│      21│         0│           0│
 │            │2. St. Mary    ║       83│      0│       4│         0│           0│
 │            │  Magdalen     ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │3. Leather     ║       81│      0│       0│         0│           0│
 │            │  Market       ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham     ║       19│      0│       0│         5│           0│
 │            │2. Battersea   ║       42│      0│       8│         4│           0│
 │Camberwell  │2. Camberwell  ║       96│      0│       0│         0│           0│
 │            │3. Peckham     ║       59│      0│       0│         0│           0│
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe    ║       68│      0│      35│         0│           0│
 ├────────────┼───────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │            │Totals         ║      756│      0│      86│         9│           5│
 │            │Totals of Table║      507│     98│      16│        20│          17│
 │            │  I.           ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │Houses in streets where no  ║        0│      0│       0│         0│           0│
 │  death occurred            ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │Not identified              ║         │       │        │          │            │
 ├────────────┬───────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │            │Totals of      ║         │       │        │          │            │
 │            │  thirty-two   ║     1263│     98│     102│        29│          22│
 │            │  Sub-districts║         │       │        │          │            │
 └────────────┴───────────────╨─────────┴───────┴────────┴──────────┴────────────┴

 ┌────────────┬───────────────┬────────╥─────────────────┐
 │            │               │ Deaths ║                 │
 │            │               │  from  ║                 │
 │            │               │cholera ║  Mortality per  │
 │Registration│ Registration  │in first║ 10,000 supplied │
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts. │7 weeks ║  with water as  │
 │            │               │   of   ║     under.      │
 │            │               │epidemic║                 │
 │            │               │of 1854.║                 │
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼────────╫─────────┬───────┤
 │            │               │        ║Southwark│       │
 │            │               │        ║   and   │Lambeth│
 │            │               │        ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │
 │            │               │        ║   Co.   │       │
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │               │        ║         │       │
 │            │               │        ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │St. Saviour,│2. St. Saviour │     125║     70·3│       │
 │  Southw.   │               │        ║         │       │
 │St. Olave,  │1. St. Olave   │      53║     49·1│       │
 │  Southwark │               │        ║         │       │
 │            │2. St. John,   │      51║     50·1│       │
 │            │  Horselydown  │        ║         │       │
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James   │     123║     44·0│       │
 │            │2. St. Mary    │      87║     48·0│       │
 │            │  Magdalen     │        ║         │       │
 │            │3. Leather     │      81║     57·8│       │
 │            │  Market       │        ║         │       │
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham     │      24║     28·1│       │
 │            │2. Battersea   │      54║     66·9│       │
 │Camberwell  │2. Camberwell  │      96║    104·8│       │
 │            │3. Peckham     │      59║    108·4│       │
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe    │     103║     55·6│       │
 ├────────────┼───────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │Totals         │     856║     58·7│       │
 │            │Totals of Table│     658║     47·2│    6·8│
 │            │  I.           │        ║         │       │
 │Houses in streets where no  │       0║         │       │
 │  death occurred            │        ║         │       │
 │Not identified              │        ║         │       │
 ├────────────┬───────────────┼────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │Totals of      │        ║         │       │
 │            │  thirty-two   │    1514║     47·2│    5·7│
 │            │  Sub-districts│        ║         │       │
 └────────────┴───────────────┴────────╨─────────┴───────┘




                               TABLE III.
 _Shewing the results of the whole Inquiry during the First Seven Weeks
                of the Epidemic, arranged in Districts._


 ┌────────────┬─────────┬──────────┬──────────╥
 │            │Number of│          │Estimated ║
 │Registration│inhabited│Population│ constant ║
 │ Districts. │houses in│ in 1851. │population║
 │            │  1851.  │          │per house.║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│    4,600│    35,731│       7·8║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │St. Olave,  │    2,360│    19,375│       8·2║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │Bermondsey  │    7,007│    48,128│       6·9║
 │St. George, │    6,992│    51,824│       7·4║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │Newington   │   10,458│    64,816│       6·2║
 │Lambeth     │   20,447│   139,325│       6·8║
 │Wandsworth  │    8,276│    50,764│       6·1║
 │Camberwell  │    9,412│    54,667│       5·8║
 │Rotherhithe │    2,792│    17,805│       6·4║
 │Sub-district│         │          │          ║
 │  of        │      801│     4,501│       5·6║
 │  Sydenham  │         │          │          ║
 │Not         │         │          │       6·6║
 │  identified│         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │   Totals   │   73,145│   486,936│       6·7║
 └────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────╨

 ┌────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────╥
 │            ║                                       ║
 │Registration║“Number of houses, and estimated number║
 │ Districts. ║of persons, supplied in 1854 with water║
 │            ║              as under.”               ║
 │            ║                                       ║
 ├────────────╫───────────────────┬───────────────────╫
 │            ║                   │                   ║
 │            ║ By the Southwark  │  By the Lambeth   ║
 │            ║ and Vauxhall Co.  │     Company.      ║
 │            ║                   │                   ║
 ├────────────╫───────┬───────────┼───────┬───────────╫
 │            ║No. of │ Estimated │No. of │ Estimated ║
 │            ║houses.│population.│houses.│population.║
 ├────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │St. Saviour,║  2,631│     19,617│  1,689│     14,201║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │St. Olave,  ║  2,193│     18,638│      0│          0║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Bermondsey  ║  8,402│     57,884│    268│      1,785║
 │St. George, ║  3,419│     25,039│  3,183│     23,712║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Newington   ║  5,224│     31,940│  5,473│     33,531║
 │Lambeth     ║  8,077│     54,982│ 11,763│     83,786║
 │Wandsworth  ║  3,028│     18,390│    618│      3,870║
 │Camberwell  ║  4,005│     23,472│  1,835│     10,478║
 │Rotherhithe ║  2,336│     14,951│      0│          0║
 │Sub-district║       │           │       │           ║
 │  of        ║      0│          0│unknow.│    unknow.║
 │  Sydenham  ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Not         ║    411│      2,712│     25│        165║
 │  identified║       │           │       │           ║
 ├────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │   Totals   ║ 39,726│    267,625│ 24,854│    171,528║
 └────────────╨───────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────╨

 ┌────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────────────────┬
 │            ║                                                   │
 │Registration║ Water supply of the houses in which fatal attacks │
 │ Districts. ║ of cholera took place during first seven weeks of │
 │            ║                 epidemic of 1854.                 │
 │            ║                                                   │
 ├────────────╫─────────┬───────┬────────┬───────────┬────────────┼
 │            ║Southwark│       │Thames, │           │            │
 │            ║   and   │Lambeth│canals, │Pump-wells.│ Supply not │
 │            ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │   or   │           │ascertained.│
 │            ║   Co.   │       │ditches.│           │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼───────────┼────────────┼
 │            ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │            ║         │       │        │           │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼───────────┼────────────┼
 │St. Saviour,║      126│     13│      10│          0│           1│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │St. Olave,  ║       91│      0│       8│          0│           5│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │Bermondsey  ║      266│      0│      25│          0│           0│
 │St. George, ║      134│     20│       0│          0│           3│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │Newington   ║      155│     11│       0│          1│           2│
 │Lambeth     ║      176│     43│       8│          7│           9│
 │Wandsworth  ║       62│      1│      16│         17│           0│
 │Camberwell  ║      185│      9│       0│          2│           1│
 │Rotherhithe ║       68│      0│      35│          0│           0│
 │Sub-district║         │       │        │           │            │
 │  of        ║        0│      1│       0│          2│           1│
 │  Sydenham  ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │Not         ║         │       │        │           │            │
 │  identified║         │       │        │           │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼────────┼───────────┼────────────┼
 │   Totals   ║     1263│     98│     102│         29│          22│
 └────────────╨─────────┴───────┴────────┴───────────┴────────────┴

 ┌────────────┬─────────╥─────────────────┐
 │            │Deaths in║  Mortality per  │
 │Registration│  first  ║ 10,000 supplied │
 │ Districts. │  seven  ║  with water as  │
 │            │weeks of ║     under.      │
 │            │epidemic.║                 │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┬───────┤
 │            │         ║Southwark│       │
 │            │         ║   and   │Lambeth│
 │            │         ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │
 │            │         ║   Co.   │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │         ║         │       │
 │            │         ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │St. Saviour,│      150║     64·4│    9·1│
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │St. Olave,  │      104║     48·8│       │
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │Bermondsey  │      291║     45·9│       │
 │St. George, │      157║     53·5│    8·4│
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │Newington   │      169║     48·5│    3·2│
 │Lambeth     │      243║     32·8│    4·9│
 │Wandsworth  │       96║     33·7│    3·3│
 │Camberwell  │      197║     78·8│    8·5│
 │Rotherhithe │      103║     45·4│       │
 │Sub-district│         ║         │       │
 │  of        │        4║         │       │
 │  Sydenham  │         ║         │       │
 │Not         │         ║         │       │
 │  identified│         ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │   Totals   │     1514║     47·2│    5·7│
 └────────────┴─────────╨─────────┴───────┘




                               TABLE IV.
_The Inquiry of the General Register Office during the Last Ten Weeks of
                             the Epidemic._


 ┌────────────┬─────────┬──────────┬──────────╥
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │Number of│          │Estimated ║
 │Registration│inhabited│Population│ constant ║
 │ District.  │houses in│ in 1851. │population║
 │            │  1851.  │          │per house.║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │            │         │          │          ║
 │            │         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│    4,600│    35,721│       7·8║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │St. Olave,  │    2,360│    19,375│       8·2║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │Bermondsey  │    7,007│    48,128│       6·9║
 │St. George, │    6,992│    51,824│       7·4║
 │  Southwark │         │          │          ║
 │Newington   │   10,458│    64,816│       6·2║
 │Lambeth     │   20,447│   139,325│       6·8║
 │Wandsworth  │    8,276│    50,764│       6·1║
 │Camberwell  │    9,412│    54,667│       5·8║
 │Rotherhithe │    2,792│    17,805│       6·4║
 │Greenwich & │         │          │          ║
 │  sub-dis.  │         │          │          ║
 │  Sydenham  │         │          │          ║
 │Houses not  │         │          │       6·6║
 │  identified│         │          │          ║
 ├────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │   Totals   │   72,344│   482,435│       6·7║
 └────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────╨

 ┌────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────╥
 │            ║                                       ║
 │            ║                                       ║
 │Registration║“Number of houses, and estimated number║
 │ District.  ║of persons, supplied in 1854 with water║
 │            ║              as under.”               ║
 │            ║                                       ║
 │            ║                                       ║
 ├────────────╫───────────────────┬───────────────────╫
 │            ║                   │                   ║
 │            ║ By Southwark and  │  By the Lambeth   ║
 │            ║   Vauxhall Co.    │     Company.      ║
 │            ║                   │                   ║
 ├────────────╫───────┬───────────┼───────┬───────────╫
 │            ║ No. of│ Estimated │No. of │ Estimated ║
 │            ║houses.│Population.│houses.│Population.║
 ├────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │St. Saviour,║  2,631│     19,617│  1,689│     14,201║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │St. Olave,  ║  2,193│     18,638│      0│          0║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Bermondsey  ║  8,402│     57,884│    268│      1,785║
 │St. George, ║  3,419│     25,039│  3,183│     23,712║
 │  Southwark ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Newington   ║  5,224│     31,940│  5,473│     33,531║
 │Lambeth     ║  8,077│     54,982│ 11,763│     83,786║
 │Wandsworth  ║  3,028│     18,390│    618│      3,870║
 │Camberwell  ║  4,005│     23,472│  1,835│     10,478║
 │Rotherhithe ║  2,336│     14,951│      0│          0║
 │Greenwich & ║       │           │       │           ║
 │  sub-dis.  ║       │           │       │           ║
 │  Sydenham  ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Houses not  ║    411│      2,712│     25│        165║
 │  identified║       │           │       │           ║
 ├────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │   Totals   ║ 39,726│    267,625│ 24,854│    171,528║
 └────────────╨───────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────╨

 ┌────────────╥─────────────────────────────────────────┬
 │            ║                                         │
 │            ║                                         │
 │Registration║Water supply of the houses in which fatal│
 │ District.  ║     attacks of cholera took place.      │
 │            ║                                         │
 │            ║                                         │
 │            ║                                         │
 ├────────────╫─────────┬───────┬──────────┬────────────┼
 │            ║Southwark│       │          │            │
 │            ║   and   │Lambeth│   From   │ Supply not │
 │            ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │pumpwells.│ascertained.│
 │            ║   Co.   │       │          │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │            ║         │       │          │            │
 │            ║         │       │          │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │St. Saviour,║      280│     59│         0│           2│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │          │            │
 │St. Olave,  ║      186│      0│         0│          23│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │          │            │
 │Bermondsey  ║      555│      0│         0│           0│
 │St. George, ║      254│     79│         0│          53│
 │  Southwark ║         │       │          │            │
 │Newington   ║      303│     47│         1│         174│
 │Lambeth     ║      349│     95│         9│         231│
 │Wandsworth  ║      206│      6│        73│          40│
 │Camberwell  ║      167│     24│       113│          48│
 │Rotherhithe ║      139│      0│        11│          30│
 │Greenwich & ║         │       │          │            │
 │  sub-dis.  ║        4│      3│          │            │
 │  Sydenham  ║         │       │          │            │
 │Houses not  ║         │       │          │            │
 │  identified║         │       │          │            │
 ├────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │   Totals   ║    2,443│    313│       207│         601│
 └────────────╨─────────┴───────┴──────────┴────────────┴

 ┌────────────┬─────────╥─────────────────┐
 │            │ Deaths  ║                 │
 │            │  from   ║  Mortality per  │
 │Registration│ cholera ║ 10,000 supplied │
 │ District.  │ in last ║  with water as  │
 │            │ten weeks║     under.      │
 │            │   of    ║                 │
 │            │epidemic.║                 │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┬───────┤
 │            │         ║Southwark│       │
 │            │         ║   and   │Lambeth│
 │            │         ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │
 │            │         ║   Co.   │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │            │         ║         │       │
 │            │         ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │St. Saviour,│      341║      143│     41│
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │St. Olave,  │      209║      100│       │
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │Bermondsey  │      555║       96│       │
 │St. George, │      386║      101│     33│
 │  Southwark │         ║         │       │
 │Newington   │      525║       95│     14│
 │Lambeth     │      684║       63│     11│
 │Wandsworth  │      325║      112│     15│
 │Camberwell  │      352║       71│     23│
 │Rotherhithe │      180║       93│       │
 │Greenwich & │         ║         │       │
 │  sub-dis.  │        7║         │       │
 │  Sydenham  │         ║         │       │
 │Houses not  │         ║         │       │
 │  identified│         ║         │       │
 ├────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │   Totals   │    3,564║       91│     18│
 └────────────┴─────────╨─────────┴───────┘




                                TABLE V.
  _Shewing the results of the Inquiry for the whole Epidemic of 1854._


 ┌─────────────────────┬─────────┬──────────┬──────────╥
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │Number of│          │Estimated ║
 │    Registration     │inhabited│Population│ constant ║
 │      District.      │houses in│ in 1851. │population║
 │                     │  1851.  │          │per house.║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 │                     │         │          │          ║
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │St. Saviour,         │    4,600│    35,721│       7·8║
 │  Southwark          │         │          │          ║
 │St. Olave, Southwark │    2,360│    19,375│       8·2║
 │Bermondsey           │    7,007│    48,128│       6·9║
 │St. George, Southwark│    6,992│    51,824│       7·4║
 │Newington            │   10,458│    64,816│       6·2║
 │Lambeth              │   20,447│   139,325│       6·8║
 │Wandsworth           │    8,276│    50,764│       6·1║
 │Camberwell           │    9,412│    54,667│       5·8║
 │Rotherhithe          │    2,792│    17,805│       6·4║
 │Greenwich & sub-dis. │         │          │          ║
 │  Sydenham           │         │          │          ║
 │Houses not identified│         │          │       6·6║
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │       Totals        │   72,344│   482,435│       6·7║
 │Non-ascertained cases│         │          │          ║
 │  distributed in     │         │          │          ║
 │  proportion of      │         │          │          ║
 │  others             │         │          │          ║
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┼──────────╫
 │Population           │         │          │          ║
 │  (Registrar-General)│         │          │          ║
 └─────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────╨

 ┌─────────────────────╥───────────────────────────────────────╥
 │                     ║                                       ║
 │                     ║                                       ║
 │    Registration     ║“Number of houses, and estimated number║
 │      District.      ║of persons, supplied in 1854 with water║
 │                     ║              as under.”               ║
 │                     ║                                       ║
 │                     ║                                       ║
 ├─────────────────────╫───────────────────┬───────────────────╫
 │                     ║                   │                   ║
 │                     ║ By Southwark and  │  By the Lambeth   ║
 │                     ║   Vauxhall Co.    │     Company.      ║
 │                     ║                   │                   ║
 ├─────────────────────╫───────┬───────────┼───────┬───────────╫
 │                     ║ No. of│ Estimated │No. of │ Estimated ║
 │                     ║houses.│Population.│houses.│Population.║
 ├─────────────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │St. Saviour,         ║  2,631│     19,617│  1,689│     14,201║
 │  Southwark          ║       │           │       │           ║
 │St. Olave, Southwark ║  2,193│     18,638│      0│          0║
 │Bermondsey           ║  8,402│     57,884│    268│      1,785║
 │St. George, Southwark║  3,419│     25,039│  3,183│     23,712║
 │Newington            ║  5,224│     31,940│  5,473│     33,531║
 │Lambeth              ║  8,077│     54,982│ 11,763│     83,786║
 │Wandsworth           ║  3,028│     18,390│    618│      3,870║
 │Camberwell           ║  4,005│     23,472│  1,835│     10,478║
 │Rotherhithe          ║  2,336│     14,951│      0│          0║
 │Greenwich & sub-dis. ║       │           │       │           ║
 │  Sydenham           ║       │           │       │           ║
 │Houses not identified║    411│      2,712│     25│        165║
 ├─────────────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │       Totals        ║ 39,726│    267,625│ 24,854│    171,528║
 │Non-ascertained cases║       │           │       │           ║
 │  distributed in     ║       │           │       │           ║
 │  proportion of      ║       │           │       │           ║
 │  others             ║       │           │       │           ║
 ├─────────────────────╫───────┼───────────┼───────┼───────────╫
 │Population           ║       │    266,516│       │    173,748║
 │  (Registrar-General)║       │           │       │           ║
 └─────────────────────╨───────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────╨

 ┌─────────────────────╥─────────────────────────────────────────┬
 │                     ║                                         │
 │                     ║                                         │
 │    Registration     ║Water supply of the houses in which fatal│
 │      District.      ║     attacks of cholera took place.      │
 │                     ║                                         │
 │                     ║                                         │
 │                     ║                                         │
 ├─────────────────────╫─────────┬───────┬──────────┬────────────┼
 │                     ║Southwark│       │          │            │
 │                     ║   and   │Lambeth│   From   │ Supply not │
 │                     ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │pumpwells.│ascertained.│
 │                     ║   Co.   │       │          │            │
 ├─────────────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │                     ║         │       │          │            │
 │                     ║         │       │          │            │
 ├─────────────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │St. Saviour,         ║      406│     72│        10│           3│
 │  Southwark          ║         │       │          │            │
 │St. Olave, Southwark ║      277│      0│         8│          28│
 │Bermondsey           ║      821│      0│        25│           0│
 │St. George, Southwark║      388│     99│         0│          56│
 │Newington            ║      458│     58│         2│         176│
 │Lambeth              ║      525│    138│        24│         240│
 │Wandsworth           ║      268│      7│       106│          40│
 │Camberwell           ║      352│     33│       115│          49│
 │Rotherhithe          ║      207│      0│        46│          30│
 │Greenwich & sub-dis. ║        4│      4│         2│           1│
 │  Sydenham           ║         │       │          │            │
 │Houses not identified║         │       │          │            │
 ├─────────────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │       Totals        ║    3,706│    411│       338│         623│
 │Non-ascertained cases║         │       │          │            │
 │  distributed in     ║      561│     62│          │            │
 │  proportion of      ║         │       │          │            │
 │  others             ║         │       │          │            │
 ├─────────────────────╫─────────┼───────┼──────────┼────────────┼
 │Population           ║    4,267│    473│       338│            │
 │  (Registrar-General)║         │       │          │            │
 └─────────────────────╨─────────┴───────┴──────────┴────────────┴

 ┌─────────────────────┬─────────╥─────────────────┐
 │                     │ Deaths  ║                 │
 │                     │  from   ║  Mortality per  │
 │    Registration     │ cholera ║ 10,000 supplied │
 │      District.      │ in last ║  with water as  │
 │                     │ten weeks║     under.      │
 │                     │   of    ║                 │
 │                     │epidemic.║                 │
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────╫─────────┬───────┤
 │                     │         ║Southwark│       │
 │                     │         ║   and   │Lambeth│
 │                     │         ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │
 │                     │         ║   Co.   │       │
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │                     │         ║         │       │
 │                     │         ║         │       │
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │St. Saviour,         │      491║      207│     50│
 │  Southwark          │         ║         │       │
 │St. Olave, Southwark │      313║      148│       │
 │Bermondsey           │      846║      142│       │
 │St. George, Southwark│      543║      155│     41│
 │Newington            │      694║      143│     17│
 │Lambeth              │      927║       96│     16│
 │Wandsworth           │      421║      145│     18│
 │Camberwell           │      549║      150│     31│
 │Rotherhithe          │      283║      138│       │
 │Greenwich & sub-dis. │       11║         │       │
 │  Sydenham           │         ║         │       │
 │Houses not identified│         ║         │       │
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │       Totals        │    5,078║      138│     23│
 │Non-ascertained cases│         ║         │       │
 │  distributed in     │         ║         │       │
 │  proportion of      │         ║         │       │
 │  others             │         ║         │       │
 ├─────────────────────┼─────────╫─────────┼───────┤
 │Population           │    5,078║      160│     27│
 │  (Registrar-General)│         ║         │       │
 └─────────────────────┴─────────╨─────────┴───────┘




                               TABLE VI.
  _The Mortality from Cholera in 1854, in Thirty-one Sub-Districts, as
  compared with Calculations founded on the Results shewn in_ Table V.


 ┌────────────┬──────────────┬──────────╥───────────────────────────╥
 │Registration│ Registration │Population║   Estimated population    ║
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.│ in 1851. ║  supplied with water as   ║
 │            │              │          ║          under.           ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼──────────╫─────────┬───────┬─────────╫
 │            │              │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │              │          ║Southwark│       │  Both   ║
 │            │              │          ║   and   │Lambeth│Companies║
 │            │              │          ║Vauxhall │  Co.  │together.║
 │            │              │          ║   Co.   │       │         ║
 │            │              │          ║         │       │         ║
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼──────────╫─────────┼───────┼─────────╫
 │St. Saviour,│1.            │    16,022║    2,915│ 13,234│   16,149║
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch│          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │2. St. Saviour│    19,709║   16,337│    898│   17,235║
 │St. Olave   │1. St. Olave  │     8,015║    8,745│      0│    8,745║
 │            │2. St. John,  │    11,300║    9,360│      0│    9,360║
 │            │  Horselydown │          ║         │       │         ║
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James  │    18,899║   23,173│    693│   23,866║
 │            │2. St. Mary   │    13,934║   17,258│      0│   17,258║
 │            │  Magdalen    │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │3. Leather    │    15,295║   14,003│  1,092│   15,095║
 │            │  Market      │          ║         │       │         ║
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  │    18,126║   12,630│  3,997│   16,627║
 │  Southw.   │              │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │2. Borough    │    15,862║    8,937│  6,672│   15,609║
 │            │  Road        │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │3. London Road│    17,836║    2,872│ 11,497│   14,369║
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    │    20,922║   10,132│  8,370│   18,502║
 │            │2. St. Peter, │    29,861║   14,274│ 10,724│   24,998║
 │            │  Walworth    │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │3. St. Mary   │    14,033║    2,983│  5,484│    8,467║
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  │    14,088║    3,548│ 11,939│   15,487║
 │            │  part 1      │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │2. Waterloo,  │    18,348║    7,171│ 12,533│   19,704║
 │            │  part 2      │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │3. Lambeth    │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │  church, pt. │    18,409║    3,113│ 15,878│   18,991║
 │            │  1           │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │4. Lambeth    │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │  church, pt. │    26,784║    7,868│ 16,023│   23,891║
 │            │  2           │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │5. Kennington,│    24,261║   15,775│  2,708│   18,483║
 │            │  part 1      │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │6. Kennington,│    18,848║    7,874│  5,620│   13,494║
 │            │  part 2      │          ║         │       │         ║
 │            │7. Brixton    │    14,610║    1,922│  9,356│   11,278║
 │            │8. Norwood    │     3,977║        0│  1,066│    1,066║
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham    │    16,290║    6,747│    134│    6,881║
 │            │2. Battersea  │    10,560║    6,276│    276│    6,552║
 │            │3. Wandsworth │     9,611║      907│     94│    1,001║
 │            │4. Putney     │     5,280║       74│      0│       74║
 │            │5. Streatham  │     9,023║        0│  3,244│    3,244║
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    │     1,632║        0│     25│       25║
 │            │2. Camberwell │    17,742║    9,139│    639│    9,778║
 │            │3. Peckham    │    19,444║    5,438│    392│    5,830║
 │            │4. St. George │    15,849║    4,295│  5,437│    9,732║
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe   │    17,805║   12,218│      0│   12,218║
 │Houses supplied in streets │          ║   28,929│ 23,338│   52,267║
 │  where no death occurred  │          ║         │       │         ║
 │Houses not identified      │          ║    2,712│    165│    2,877║
 ├───────────────────────────┼──────────╫─────────┼───────┼─────────╫
 │          Totals           │   482,435║  267,625│171,528│  439,153║
 │Population as estimated by │          ║  266,516│173,748│  440,264║
 │  the Registrar-General    │          ║         │       │         ║
 └───────────────────────────┴──────────╨─────────┴───────┴─────────╨

 ┌────────────┬──────────────╥───────────────┬
 │Registration│ Registration ║  Deaths from  │
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.║  cholera in   │
 │            │              ║     1854.     │
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫───────┬───────┼
 │            │              ║       │       │
 │            │              ║       │Deaths │
 │            │              ║ Total │  per  │
 │            │              ║deaths.│10,000 │
 │            │              ║       │living.│
 │            │              ║       │       │
 ├────────────┼──────────────╫───────┼───────┼
 │St. Saviour,│1.            ║    113│     71│
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch║       │       │
 │            │2. St. Saviour║    378│    192│
 │St. Olave   │1. St. Olave  ║    161│    201│
 │            │2. St. John,  ║    152│    134│
 │            │  Horselydown ║       │       │
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James  ║    362│    192│
 │            │2. St. Mary   ║    247│    177│
 │            │  Magdalen    ║       │       │
 │            │3. Leather    ║    237│    155│
 │            │  Market      ║       │       │
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  ║    177│     98│
 │  Southw.   │              ║       │       │
 │            │2. Borough    ║    271│    171│
 │            │  Road        ║       │       │
 │            │3. London Road║     95│     53│
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    ║    211│    101│
 │            │2. St. Peter, ║    391│    131│
 │            │  Walworth    ║       │       │
 │            │3. St. Mary   ║     92│     66│
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  ║     59│     42│
 │            │  part 1      ║       │       │
 │            │2. Waterloo,  ║    118│     64│
 │            │  part 2      ║       │       │
 │            │3. Lambeth    ║       │       │
 │            │  church, pt. ║     49│     27│
 │            │  1           ║       │       │
 │            │4. Lambeth    ║       │       │
 │            │  church, pt. ║    195│     73│
 │            │  2           ║       │       │
 │            │5. Kennington,║    305│    126│
 │            │  part 1      ║       │       │
 │            │6. Kennington,║    143│     75│
 │            │  part 2      ║       │       │
 │            │7. Brixton    ║     48│     33│
 │            │8. Norwood    ║     10│     25│
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham    ║    167│    103│
 │            │2. Battersea  ║    171│    162│
 │            │3. Wandsworth ║     59│     61│
 │            │4. Putney     ║      9│     17│
 │            │5. Streatham  ║     15│     17│
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    ║      0│      0│
 │            │2. Camberwell ║    242│    136│
 │            │3. Peckham    ║    175│     90│
 │            │4. St. George ║    132│     83│
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe   ║    283│    159│
 │Houses supplied in streets ║       │       │
 │  where no death occurred  ║       │       │
 │Houses not identified      ║       │       │
 ├───────────────────────────╫───────┼───────┼
 │          Totals           ║  5,067│    105│
 │Population as estimated by ║       │       │
 │  the Registrar-General    ║       │       │
 └───────────────────────────╨───────┴───────┴

 ┌────────────┬──────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────┐
 │Registration│ Registration │Calculated mortality in the population,│
 │ Districts. │Sub-Districts.│     supplied with water as under.     │
 │            │              │                                       │
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼─────────┬───────┬──────────┬──────────┤
 │            │              │Southwark│       │          │Calculated│
 │            │              │   and   │Lambeth│          │deaths per│
 │            │              │Vauxhall │Co. at │ The two  │  10,000  │
 │            │              │ Co. at  │27 per │Companies.│ supplied │
 │            │              │ 160 per │10,000.│          │by the two│
 │            │              │ 10,000. │       │          │Companies.│
 ├────────────┼──────────────┼─────────┼───────┼──────────┼──────────┤
 │St. Saviour,│1.            │       46│     36│        82│        57│
 │  Southw.   │  Christchurch│         │       │          │          │
 │            │2. St. Saviour│      261│      2│       263│       153│
 │St. Olave   │1. St. Olave  │      140│      0│       140│       160│
 │            │2. St. John,  │      150│      0│       150│       160│
 │            │  Horselydown │         │       │          │          │
 │Bermondsey  │1. St. James  │      370│      2│       372│       156│
 │            │2. St. Mary   │      276│      0│       276│       160│
 │            │  Magdalen    │         │       │          │          │
 │            │3. Leather    │      224│      3│       227│       150│
 │            │  Market      │         │       │          │          │
 │St. George, │1. Kent Road  │      202│     11│       213│       134│
 │  Southw.   │              │         │       │          │          │
 │            │2. Borough    │      143│     18│       161│       104│
 │            │  Road        │         │       │          │          │
 │            │3. London Road│       46│     31│        79│        55│
 │Newington   │1. Trinity    │      162│     22│       184│        99│
 │            │2. St. Peter, │      228│     29│       257│       103│
 │            │  Walworth    │         │       │          │          │
 │            │3. St. Mary   │       48│     15│        63│        74│
 │Lambeth     │1. Waterloo,  │       57│     31│        86│        55│
 │            │  part 1      │         │       │          │          │
 │            │2. Waterloo,  │      115│     34│       149│        76│
 │            │  part 2      │         │       │          │          │
 │            │3. Lambeth    │         │       │          │          │
 │            │  church, pt. │       50│     43│        93│        49│
 │            │  1           │         │       │          │          │
 │            │4. Lambeth    │         │       │          │          │
 │            │  church, pt. │      126│     43│       167│        71│
 │            │  2           │         │       │          │          │
 │            │5. Kennington,│      253│      7│       260│       146│
 │            │  part 1      │         │       │          │          │
 │            │6. Kennington,│      126│     15│       141│       105│
 │            │  part 2      │         │       │          │          │
 │            │7. Brixton    │       31│     25│        56│        49│
 │            │8. Norwood    │        0│      3│         3│        28│
 │Wandsworth  │1. Clapham    │      108│      0│       108│       158│
 │            │2. Battersea  │      100│      1│       101│       152│
 │            │3. Wandsworth │       15│      0│        15│       149│
 │            │4. Putney     │        1│      0│         1│       160│
 │            │5. Streatham  │        0│      9│         9│        27│
 │Camberwell  │1. Dulwich    │        0│      0│         0│         0│
 │            │2. Camberwell │      146│      2│       148│       151│
 │            │3. Peckham    │       87│      1│        88│       151│
 │            │4. St. George │       69│     15│        84│        86│
 │Rotherhithe │Rotherhithe   │      196│      0│       196│       160│
 │Houses supplied in streets │         │       │          │          │
 │  where no death occurred  │         │       │          │          │
 │Houses not identified      │         │       │          │          │
 ├───────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────┼──────────┼──────────┤
 │          Totals           │    4,282│    462│     4,744│       108│
 │Population as estimated by │    4,267│    473│     4,740│       108│
 │  the Registrar-General    │         │       │          │          │
 └───────────────────────────┴─────────┴───────┴──────────┴──────────┘

-----

Footnote 1:

  Weekly Returns of Deaths, November.

Footnote 2:

  On the Mode of Communication of Cholera, 2nd edit., p. 73.

Footnote 3:

  Weekly Returns for 1854, p. 433.

Footnote 4:

  Weekly Returns for 1854, pp. 514–18.

Footnote 5:

  Medical Times and Gazette, Oct. 7, 1854, p. 365.

Footnote 6:

  The numbers of deaths in the third division of this Table and the
  next, are copied from page 85 of the work “On the Mode of
  Communication of Cholera”.

Footnote 7:

  Loc. cit.

Footnote 8:

  Sackville Street.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. P. 1, changed “they aware of” to “they are aware of”.
 2. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 3. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 4. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHOLERA AND THE WATER SUPPLY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
